I

N T R O D U C T

eneti

n

o
ERSERT PARKES RtlE

£

B3

I

Marine Biological Laboratory Library

I
I

Woods

Hole,

Mass.

I
I
I
,^='^^^\j

I
I
I

Presented by

ESTATE OF HARRY L. WEIMAN
Octcberp 1964

I

I
I

I
I
I
I
I

J^^^^^^^^^^^^^St

iJ.f

w

INTRODUCTION TO

GENETICS AND CYTOGENETICS

INTRODUCTION

T

O

Genetics and

Cytogenetics

BY HERBERT PARKES RILEY
Head, Department of Botany
University of Ker^tucky

^^M^AC^

JOHN WILEY

&

CHAPMAN

HALL,

&

SONS,

INC.,

NEW YORK

LIMITED,

LONDON

PREFACE
In this book

have endeavored to state and to explain the
basic principles of biological inheritance and to show the importance of those principles to man, to the improvement of plants
and animals, and to organic evolution. I have attempted to present this material in a simple fashion so that any reader can
grasp the fundamentals of heredity in spite of limited biological
training.
However, I have also included some of the data that
I

support these principles so that the student who wishes can acquire an adequate background for further studies in heredity,

and I have added a fairly extensive bibliography so that the
more serious student will have a diversified list of some of the
items of the research literature should he wish more information
on a subject than a book of this size can offer.
Throughout this book I have stressed general principles rather
than practical applications and have drawn my illustrations
from both the Plant and the Animal Kingdoms. For the reader

who is interested in human biology, references to inherited traits
and Chapters 3 and 19 should be of especial importance.
The emphasis on principles and the variety of the
illustrations should make this book of value to students of agriculture, psychology, and sociology.
It should serve also as a
foundation for advanced work in genetics and cytogenetics.
The book is readily divisible into four parts. The first five
are numerous,

chapters

provide a

survey of general biological

information

which must be understood before progressing into the field of
genetics itself. In Chapters 6 through 13 I discuss the fundamental principles of the transmission of genes. In discussing the

method by which genes are distributed from generation

to

have used the cytological approach, describing
chromosomes and their behavior at cell division and reproducgeneration,

I

tion.

Chapters 14 through 23 make up the third part of the

book.

They deal with the nature and physiology of genes and

also include

some topics

of practical
vii

and

of general interest.

viii

Preface

Chapters 24 through 30, the fourth and last part of the book,
deal with what are frequently called "chromosomal aberrations."

we accept an ideal concept of chromosomal behavior during
cell division and reproduction and if we accept the 2n number
as the ideal number of chromosomes in the animal soma or in
the plant sporophyte and the n number as ideal in the plant
gametophyte, any departure from these ideal conditions represents an aberration.
The various types of aberrations are deIf

scribed in this section, and their bearing on problems of evolution
is discussed.
This material is often called "cytogenetics," although any correlation at all between genetic data and cytologi-

cal observations should properly bear this designation.

Throughout I have tried to avoid being dogmatic on all or
most controversial issues. Sometimes I have attempted to present all the important theories concerned in the explanation of

any preference, and on some
points where I have favored one theory I have presented other

certain data without expressing

theories for the student to consider.

Because of its scope, I have had to restrict the bibliography
somewhat. Many important papers have had to be omitted entirely and where an author had published a series of papers on
the same subject, I have listed only a few. Although I did not
adhere rigidly to any rule, I frequently listed the first paper of
the series and the most recent. I usually, also, included papers
that contained extensive bibliographies or summarized information and those that were especially outstanding for the theories
Even though a paper was
or conclusions that they presented.
referred to in more than one chapter, I included it in the bibliography only once.
Several persons have read all or part of the manuscript, and
However,
to them I wish to express my deepest appreciation.
I must emphasize that they are in no way responsible for any
Professor George
of the errors that may appear in the book.
H. Shull of Princeton University has read and criticized the entire text in manuscript, and I am very grateful to him for many
suggestions. I also wish to thank Professor P. W. Whiting of
the University of Pennsylvania for his kindness in reading and
criticizing the manuscript of parts of Chapters 16 and 29.
Doctor Alexander Wiener of Brooklyn, New York, read the
manuscript of most of Chapter 19 and made many suggestions

Preface
that I greatly appreciate.

I

ix

am grateful also to Doctor Edgar

Anderson of the Missouri Botanical Garden for reading the page
proof and for an important suggestion.
Many of the diagrams and illustrations are original, but in
any book of a general nature it is necessary to borrow from the
published works of others.
I am indebted to Professor R. A.
Fisher, also to Messrs. Oliver and Boyd, Ltd., Edinburgh, for
permission to reprint Table III from their book Statistical
Methods for Research Workers. I also wish to express my appreciation to the University of Chicago Press for permission to
use Figure 10, which had previously appeared in the Botanical
Gazette, to the American Naturalist for permission to borrow
Table 20, and to Scientific Agriculture for permission to reproduce Table 23. I wish also to express my sincerest thanks to
all the numerous journals which gave me permission to use their
material, to the many geneticists and cytologists who kindly
lent me original drawings or cuts, and to those who gave me
permission to redraw their published figures or to reproduce their
Individual acknowledgments have been made in the
data.
legends of the figures or tables.

Herbert Parked Riley
University of Kentucky

Lexington, Kentucky

November, 1947

>\

CONTENTS
Chromosomes

1

Genetics, Cells, and

2

Chromosomes and Genes

16

3

Genes and Characters

30

4

Reproduction and Meiosis

47

5

Special

6

The Genetic Distribution of a Pair of Alleles Located

Chromosomes and Sex Inheritance

in Autosomes

1

68

80

The Genetic Distribution of Genes in the X and Y
Chromosomes

95

8

Probability

108

9

The Distribution of Two or More Pairs of Alleles in
Two or More Chromosomes

124

The Genetic Distribution of Two Pairs of Genes on
One Pair of Chromosomes

147

11

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

171

12

Chromosome Maps

186

13

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

202

14

The Nature of and Changes in Genes

219

15

The Nature of Gene Mutations

230

16

The Induction of Gene Mutations

243

17

Radiation, Evolution, and the Position Effect

263

18

Multiple Alleles

271

7

10

XI

83595

xii

;

Contents

,19(,\ 'Blood

Groups

282

Gene Action

301

Interaction of Genes

320

22

Quantitative Characters

342

23

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

367

24

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

390

25

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

414

26

Haploids and Autopolyploids

433

27

Allopolyploids

455

28

The Origin of Polyploids

47O

29

The Determination of Sex

480

30

Cytogenetics and Evolution

516

General References

545

Specific References

547

Author Index

57I

20

v^l

Subject Index

-

577

Chapter

1

GENETICS, CELLS, AND CHROMOSOMES
one of the numerous branches of the biological
It attempts to discover the laws which determine why

Genetics
sciences.

is

certain individuals related

by descent resemble one another or

why they differ from one another. It is the science of heredity
and it attempts to discover how and why certain resemblances
"run in families" and why many differences are also found among
members of the same family.

one of the biological sciences
for it includes both plants and animals in its investigations, and,

especially in its

more recent

and chemistry.

It

is,

It is

aspects,

it

borders upon physics

furthermore, a relatively new science, not

estabhshed on a scientific basis before 1900.

The science of genetics is intimately related to another bioCytology is a study of those minute
living units, the cells, of which plants and animals are constructed.
Among the many structures found in cells are certain bodies, the
chromosomes, which have been shown to be of the greatest importance to students of genetics because in them are located the
logical science, cytology.

hereditary units.
of heredity

is

In other words, the physical basis for the laws

to be found in the

chromosomes; therefore, a
of chromosomal cytology is

knowledge of cytology or at least
absolutely necessary for an understanding

of the principles of

the science of genetics.

The intimate relationship between the sciences of genetics and
cytology was not realized during their early development. However, as more information became available in both fields of
knowledge, a striking parallelism became evident which soon
suggested that they were in reality not two separate studies but
Further experiments only served to
corroborate this unity until it became evident that the close
relationship between genetics and cytology was incontrovertible.

merely two pliases of one.

During the earher years of scientific investigations into the
field of heredity, data were obtained by methods that are con1

2

Genetics, Cells,

and Chromosomes

AVhen the physical basis of genetic
phenomena was realized numerous studies were undertaken using
the methods of both genetics and cytology and correlating data
obtained by genetic procedures with observations determined by
cytological techniques.
This dual approach to the problems of
heredity has given us the term cytogenetics, a term which emsidered purely genetical.

phasizes the correlation
diverse techniques.

of

information obtained by the two

Many of the methods of cytogenetics make

use of chromosomal aberrations, for

it

is

by an intense study

chromosomal behavior that we obtain our best
information in regard to the normal conditions. Although cytoof exceptional

genetics is frequently concerned with aberrations, che term

is

a

broad one and includes all situations in which data from cytology
and genetics are studied with reference to each other.
A study of the chromosomes and of their behavior in related
species and genera has sometimes aided in a better understanding
taxonomic groups. Many
difficult problems of classification and of relationships have been
clarified in whole or in part by supplementing taxonomic studies
with those of chromosomal cytology. A study of phylogenetic
relationships by the methods of both systematic botany or
zoology and chromosomal cytology is sometimes called cytotaxonomy.
of the evolutionary relationships of

Resting Cells

As part of the biological background for a study of heredity
we must realize that all living organisms are composed of minute
structures called cells. In the higher animals and plants the body
is made up of many cells which may differ greatly in both shape
and function.

When a cell is not dividing, it is usually referred to as a
resting or, more properly, a metabolic cell, and it is in this con-

dition that

most of the cells of both plants and animals are to

be found.

The living part of all cells, whether in the resting stage or
dividing, is a very complicated mixture of a number of different
chemical substances, known as protoplasm. Under the microscope, protoplasm, while alive, appears as a colorless, optically

homogeneous
l)ut,

fluid

containing granules, crystals, and droplets;

when killed, fixed, and stained, it appears to have a finely

Resting Cells
granular nature.

3

In the living condition protoplasm is generally

considered to be an emulsion type of colloid consisting of a
watery background in which are many tiny globules of an immiscible substance, giving

been shaken up.

it

the appearance of milk that has

In the watery part may be suspended many

extremely small particles or granules, which
so as to form an interlacing network.

may be arranged

In the liquid part also are

various dissolved substances such as salts and sugars.

protoplasm

is

Although

generally fluid and has a specific gravity only

slightly higher than water,

it

may sometimes be firmer in con-

sistency than water and more like a jelly.

Protoplasm in all typical living cells can be differentiated into
two parts, the cytoplasm and the frequently more jelly-like
nucleus. The outer region of the cytoplasm is firm and membranous and forms the plasma membrane. This is of great importance physiologically as

it

permits some substances to enter

and leave the cell and prevents others from doing so. In most
plant cells a cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane, but this
not concerned with the passage of materials into

structure

is

and out

of the cell.

In young plant

most

cells

this wall

may be

older cells a thicker secondary wall

very thin, but

in

also present.

In some types of specialized

cell this

is

secondary

wall becomes very thick.

In the embryonic plant cell (Fig.
wall

is

occupied by protoplasm.

1), the

space inside the cell

When the cell is not dividing,

the nucleus, usually centrally located,

is

a round or ellipsoidal

mass of protoplasm separated from the cytoplasm by the nuclear
membrane, a barrier that may separate nuclear and cytoplasmic
material.

In the mature, unspecializecl type of plant cell known

as a parenchyma

cell,

a large vacuole is present in the center of

the cell and the cytoplasm is mostly restricted to the periphery.

In the cytoplasm may be found living structures, such as the
plastids

and chondriosomes or mitochondria, and many non-

living substances, including starch grains, protein granules, drop-

and various crystals.
In a typical animal cell there is no large central vacuole, and
in the cytoplasm are chondriosomes and secreted granules, but
no plastids. Lying in the cytoplasm to one side of the nucleus
lets of fat or oil,

is

the centrosome, a structure intimately connected with

cell

4

Genetics, Cells,

and Chromosomes

cell

wall

cytoplasm
mitochondria
nuclear membrane

chromatin reticulum

nucleolus

vacuole

cell

wall

chloroplast

cytoplasm
nucleus

vacuole

Fig. 1. Plant cells, (a) An embryonic cell
from the root tip of an onion
X2800. (6) A parenchyma cell from the mesophyll of a leaf
of English
ivy. X1400. Camera lucida drawings.

Resting Nucleus

5

This structure, characteristic of animal

division.

cells,

is

also

a minute granule, the centriole,

The centrosome consists of
surrounded by a small mass

of protoplasm, the centrosphere

the protoplasm of the centro-

found in some of the lower plants.

;

During
some stages of division, star-like radiations extend outward from
sphere is often denser than the surrounding cytoplasm.

the centrosome into the cytoplasm, forming the aster.

Another structure characteristic of animal cells is the Golgi
apparatus. It is found in the cytoplasm and frequently appears
to be a system of connecting canals, but it may sometimes have
a more dispersed aspect.
it

is

Its function

characteristic of animal cells,

botanists,

is

it

unknown and, although

may, according to some

be present in some plant

also

cells.

No

cellulose

wall is present in animal cells.

Resting Nucleus

For a

geneticist,

the most important part of a

cell

is

the

nucleus, because in the nucleus are found the genes which de-

termine the characteristics of the organism.

The nucleus is separated from the cytoplasm by a definite
membrane, the nuclear membrane. The reality of this structure
has been shown by microdissection studies. There is good evidence that this membrane is differentially permeable, as is the
plasma membrane. If so, the substances to which it is impermeable may be very different from those which will not pass
through the plasma membrane.

The

structures inside the nuclear

observed in the living condition.
clear

membrane

are not easily

Living nuclei generally appear

and homogeneous, but sometimes seem to consist of many

fine granules.
difficult

Discerning definite structures in the nucleus

because, while alive, most of the structures of a

are colorless and have almost the

Also the threads which

same

is

cell

indices of refraction.

we know to be present in the resting

nucleus are extremely fine and attenuated and are, therefore,

more difficult to see than during division stages, when they are

many times thicker.
The structures of the nucleus are best observed if the cell is
killed,

fixed,

and stained.

cell with certain

By ''fixing" is meant treating the

chemicals that not only kill it but also preserve

the cell structures in a condition resembling a living cell.

A cell

Genetics, Cells,

6

treated in this manner
of

is

and Chromosotnes

readily stained

by certain dyes, some

which stain one part of the cell and not others.

The parts

marked contrast to the rest of the cell,
and their structure is much more easily observed than it is in

so stained stand out in

the living condition.

always found the karyolymph or
nuclear sap, a clear fluid consisting mainly of proteins. In fixed
In the resting nucleus

is

and stained nuclei, the nuclear membrane is generally stained
but the nuclear sap appears as an unstained or very lightly
Superimposed on
stained background inside the membrane.
this background are the chromatin reticulum and one or more
nucleoli, both generally stained very deeply.
In fixed and stained slides, the chromatin reticulum has the
appearance of a network and is composed of numerous very long
and extremely thin threads, in loose coils. These threads are the
chromonemata. When the cell divides another substance, the
matrix, condenses on these threads and the chromonemata and
matrix together form the chromosotnes, the most important
nuclear structures for the geneticist as they contain the genes.

In the resting nucleus, the chromosomes are individually not
distinguishable, but they

become identifiable as the cell divides.

During cell division it is clear that they exist in definite numbers which are the same not only for all the cells of a given
plant or animal, excluding certain reproductive

cells,

but also,

with certain exceptions, for all the individuals of the same species.

For example, all the somatic (that is, body or nonreproductive)
cells of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, normally have 8
chromosomes, whereas those of man have 48. Similarly, cells
of all normal maize plants have 20 somatic chromosomes, cells
of the garden pea have 14, and those of the onion have 16.
Division of Plant Cells
All cells

come from preexisting cells by division.

The term

cell division includes the division of both the nucleus and the

cytoplasm, either of which

may divide even if the division of

the other does not occur.

The division of the nucleus is called

mitosis or karyokinesis
kinesis,

and the division of the cytoplasm cyto-

but the use of mitosis for the entire process is not un-

known. It is customary to divide mitosis into four or five steps
which mark definite turning points in the process. Accordingly,

Division of Plant Cells
these five steps are frequently recognized:

7
propliase,

prometa-

phase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase.

During the resting or metabolic stage, the chromosomes are so long and thin and so intertwined that they cannot
be counted, and there is evidence that each is a single thread
With the
until the cell is about to begin to divide (Fig. 2).
Prophase.

beginning of mitosis, however, a series of profound changes in

There are a shortening and
thickening of the chromosomes and a probable loss of water and
increase in staining capacity of the individual threads, and if
the chromosomes in the resting nucleus are connected by branches
or anastomoses, as is frequently believed, these anastomoses are
withdrawn at this time. As the result of these changes the
individual chromosomes are more readily seen than in the restthe nature of the nucleus is begun.

ing nucleus and are no longer joined together in a reticulum.

One marked

feature of the chromosomes in early prophase

that they are double rather than single threads.

is

They appear

as two long threads lying parallel and close to one another, each
of which contains a specialized region known as the centromere^

kinetochore, or spindle fiber attachment point.

In early pro-

phase, the chromosomes are still long and slender and still wind

about in a number of loose coils.

As prophase progresses, the chromonemata uncoil and become
thicker.
The matrix begins to condense on the threads, and the
chromosomes at this stage frequently have a fuzzy outline as the
accumulation of this deeply staining
matrical material along the length of the chromosome.

result

of

the

irregular

The two threads that constitute the prophase chromosome are
the chromatids, each consisting of a chromonema and matrix.
The two chromatids are generally visibly uniform throughout
except for the centromeres, and the parts on either side of the

The region of the arm nearest
the centromere is the proximal region; the part farthest away is
the distal region. As prophase progresses, the matrix continues
to collect around the chromatids until each chromatid is now
centromeres are called the arms.

a

long, rod-like

body lying next

apparently identical with

it

in

to its sister chromatid

every way.

and

The two centroAs these changes

meres lie side by side and in close contact.
occur in the chromosomes, the nucleolus or nucleoli get smaller
and smaller and at about the end of prophase have usually com-

8

Genetics, Cells, and

Chromosomes

Division of Plant Cells

9

Towards the end of prophase, the chromosomes have become much shorter and thicker and stain much
more deeply than in the earlier stages. They also tend to move
towards the outer part of the nucleus. At this time the nuclear
membrane dissolves, and with the disappearance of this boundary
between the nuclear sap and the cytoplasm, prophase comes to
pletely disappeared.

an end.
Prometaphase.

When the nuclear membrane disappears, the

nuclear sap and cytoplasm are brought into direct contact, and
the cytoplasm appears to act

cause

it

as to

so

to form into a long, spindle-shaped structure

as the spindle.

known

In living cells, this structure is not easy to see,

but in many fixed and stained
fine lines

upon the nuclear sap

cells it

converging to two points.

appears as a number of

Earlier cytologists believed

and regarded the spindle as composed
of a number of such fibers, which were fairly widely separated

these lines to be fibers

in the center of the spindle but converged at the ends.

This may

be the correct interpretation, but the microdissection studies of

Chambers have tended to show that these so-called fibers are
not solid.

Whatever is the correct nature of the spindle, it is a firmer,
more rigid structure than the cytoplasm in which it is embedded.
If the living cells are detached from one another and mounted
on a slide, the spindle is crushed only with difficulty, and the
cells

generally

lie

so that the spindle

perpendicular to the surface of the slide.

is

parallel rather than

The spindle is of great

importance in cell division and, if it fails to function properly,
mitosis will be abnormal.

The spindle tapers at each end and may or may not come to a
The ends are called the poles, and the region
sharp point.

When the spindle
between them, the equator.
has formed, the chromosomes released by the breakdown of the
nuclear membrane move towards the equator.
Metaphase. At metaphase, the chromosomes are seen to lie
on the equator of the spindle. They frequently arrange themequidistant

selves so that they lie on the outer part of the spindle with only

the centromeres on the equator but sometimes, especially

when

they are small and numerous, the chromosomes are found in
the center as well as in the outer region of the spindle (Fig. 3).

The centromeres always lie on the equator, forming an equatorial

10
plate,

and Chromosomes

Genetics, Cells,

and the arms often extend away from the equator and

may frequently project into the cytoplasm.
The metaphase chromosomes are thick, deeply staining strucThey frequently appear as rod-shaped, V-shaped, or Jtures.
shaped bodies, and their particular appearance depends upon the
location of the centromere.

end {terminal attach-

If it is at the

FiG. 3. Polar views of metaphase. (a) In the egg of the animal, Ascaris
megalocephala ; X775. (6) In cells of the root tip of Iris fulva; X1500.

Camera lucida drawings.
nient)

the chromosome will appear rod-shaped;

if

it

is

at or

very near the center {median or submedian attachment) it is
V-shaped; and if it is near but not at the end {subterminal
attachment)

it

has the shape of the letter

J.

The centromere

appears in the metaphase chromosome as a constriction.

In

may

be

addition

to

the

centromere,

present near the end and

secondary

may

constrictions

be very long and deep, so that

the end of the chromosome appears as a

little

knob, called a

The function of these secondary constrictions is not well known, but on some chromosomes they are
regions at which the chromosome is attached to the nucleolus

satellite or trabant.

during the resting stage and from which the nucleolus begins
to form at telophase.
Each metaphase chromosome still consists of

two chromatids but they are very close to one another

Division of Plant Cells

and may be twisted about one another.

11

They may be so close

together that the separation is not visible except at the end, and

the chromosome may appear as a single structure forked at the
ends.

metaphase that the form of the individual chromosomes is most easily seen. In some plants, as the onion, all the
chromosomes are practically alike in size and shape, but in
many other plants this is not so. In plants in which the chromosomes are not all alike, however, every chromosome is never
different from every other one, for there are always two of each
Thus they are always in pairs, and the two members of
type.
any pair are called homologues or homologous chromosomes.
The chromosomes occur in pairs because one member of each pair
has been received from the male parent and the other member
from the female parent, and these two chromosomes are identical
In the onion, for example,
as far as visual means can detect.
where all chromosomes look alike, pairs still are present but are
It

is

at

not readily detectable because of the general morphological similarity of all the

chromosomes.

The onion has 16 chromosomes,

but, since the chromosomes occur in pairs, it is equally accurate
to say that the onion has 8 pairs.
is

frequently used.

pairs, rye has 14

This method of designation

Similarly, maize has 20 chromosomes or 10
chromosomes or 7 pairs, and cabbage has 18

chromosomes or 9 pairs.
In general, we may say that a plant has n pairs of chromosomes, or 2n chromosomes, where n

is

a specific number, such

as 10 for maize and 7 for some wheat species.

In mitosis in most

organisms, all the chromosomes are spread out at random on the

Even though the chromosomes exist in pairs,
any one chromosome can ordinarily lie next to any other, and
there is absolutely no tendency for the two members of a pair
equatorial plate.

to

lie

near one another.

This is a general rule, although there

are some outstanding exceptions.

Anaphase.

After the chromosomes have become arranged on

the equator, the two chromatids of each chromosome move apart

from one another, each going towards its nearest pole.

How this

movement is brought about is still a puzzle, but possibly it is
initiated by a repulsion of perhaps an electrical nature between
the two centromeres. The centromeres are the active force in
the separation of the daughter chromosomes, and the arms are

Genetics, Cells, and

12

Chromosomes

dragged along passively by the centromeres. After the chromatids have begun to pull apart, they are referred to as daughter

chromosomes.

Anaphase begins as soon as the centromeres begin to move to
the poles and ends when all the centromeres have arrived at the
Although the initial movement is probably always due
poles.
to the repulsion of the centromeres, the final movement is sometimes accomplished by an elongation of the central part of the
spindle after the two groups of daughter chromosomes have
progressed part of the
Telophase.

way towards the poles.

As soon as the two groups of chromosomes, with

the centromeres in advance, have arrived close to the poles, a

nuclear membrane begins to form around each group and finally

completely encloses

it.

At

this

stage, the

cell

has two new

nuclei, but the remains of the spindle still persist between them.

At the equator, each spindle "fiber" begins to liquefy, and finally
found extending completely across the cell.
This plate cuts the cell into two complete halves, and where the
a thin fluid area

is

cytoplasm comes

in

contact with this liquid plate, a plasma

The cytoplasm is now divided into two
parts, and each part has a new nucleus.
The changes in the nucleus during telophase are practically

membrane is formed.

the reverse of those during prophase.

After the nuclear mem-

branes have formed around the groups of daughter chromosomes, the chromosomes themselves become extremely long and

and are consequently less deeply stained. Part of this
process is due to a loss of the matrix which had collected during
prophase around the threads. The nucleolus or nucleoh reappear
and become large as telophase progresses. After these changes
thin,

are concluded, each new daughter nucleus resembles the resting

nucleus of the original cell.
Significance of Mitosis
If the plant

we were studying was the onion, there were 16

chromosomes in the resting stage' of the cell before division. At
prophase, each chromosome consisted of 2 chromatids so that
there were 32 chromatids. As anaphase separation took place,
the 2 chromatids of each chromosome became new chromosomes
so that, during anaphase, there were 32 chromosomes, 16 of
which went to each daughter cell. Therefore, each new cell has

Chromonemata

13

16 chromosomes, or the same number as the parental cell.

As
the result of this mechanism, each cell of the body has the same
number of chromosomes. These body cells, as distinguished from
the reproductive cells, are called somatic cells, and ordinary
mitosis of body cells is frequently called somatic mitosis to disit from the type of mitosis which forms reproductive
and which will be described in a later chapter.

tinguish
cells

Mitosis in Animals

Mitosis in the onion root tip
botanical and zoological courses.

is

frequently studied in both

It is typical of higher plants

and is fundamentally the same as in the higher animals, although

d
Fig. 4,

e

Mitosis in an animal

early anaphase;

cell:

(d) late anaphase;

(a)

prophase;

metaphase; (c)
Diagrammatic.

(6)

(e) late telophase.

there are some differences in animal cells that should be con-

The

between the two groups of organisms lies in the formation of the spindle, which arises in
animal cells from two centrosomes (Fig. 4).

sidered.

chief difference

Chromonemata
Only an indication so far has been given of the internal structure of the chromosome.
When stained with hematoxylin.

Genetics, Cells, and

14

Chromosomes

no structure is generally visible inside the metaphase or anaphase chromosome. If, however, the cells are pretreated before

weak ammonia, hot water, or several other agents,
and stained with crystal violet, each chromatid is seen to consist
fixation with

of a thin, coiled thread, the chromonema (Fig. 5), or gene string,

surrounded by a wide matrix.

Although some visual evidence seems to indicate that the
chromonemata become double during late prophase or early meta-

FiG. 5.

Coiled chromonemata in Trillium,

(a)

Anaphase,

(b)

Late

diakinesis showing five pairs of chromosomes, each with its four chromatids,
(c) Diakinesis, showing two unpaired chromosomes; two pairs of chromosomes are at the top and one pair is at the right side; at the bottom are
the paired E chromosomes, each of whose arms is as long as most of the
other pairs.
(Photomicrographs courtesy of Dr. C. L. Huskins.)

phase one cell division before that at which the halves separate
to opposite poles, the chromosomes, when subjected to bombard-

ment by X-rays, usually behave as a single structure at metaphase, anaphase, and telophase and in the resting stage and do
not behave as a double structure until early prophase or just
before prophase. Apparently the reason for this is that at meta-

phase and anaphase, the chromosome as a w^hole is single even

though the chromonema inside may be double, and
whole chromosome that reacts to the X-rays.

it

is

the

The process by which a new chromonema forms from an old
one is not adequately known, but there is some evidence that
each constituent part of a chromonema, the gene, regenerates
another identical with and alongside

itself.

These new genes

then become joined up, and a duplicate of the original chro-

monema is formed.

Chromonemata

15

At metaphase and anaphase, the chromonemata are tightly
coiled within a retaining matrix.

at telophase, the

When the matrix disappears

chromonemata are free to stretch out through

which they do; but apparently they never stretch out
to their fullest extent and retain some of their coiled nature.
Thus the loose coils in which the chromosomes at early prophase
the

cell,

are arranged are the relics of the tight coils of the previous

metaphase and anaphase.
coils.

These prophase coils are called relic

Chapter 2

CHROMOSOMES AND GENES
As usually observed, chromosomes appear as thick, homogeneous bodies during metaphase and anaphase, and as long, thin
threads at prophase.

any

The prophase threads do not visually show

differentiations except for the centromeres

and numerous

granules, or chromomeres, which are most noticeable during the

two divisions that form spores in
most plants and germ cells in animals. Although a chromosome
shows little differentiation visually, it consists of a large numprophase of the

first

of the

ber of submicroscopic structures, or genes, spaced along the

thread in a linear order but not an equal distance apart from

one another.

The chromonema is a series of such genes separated

by inert regions and has therefore been referred to as a gene
string. These genes, or factors as they are sometimes called, are
too small to be observed with the photomicroscope, but they are
regions of great physiological

activity.

Exerting their effect

during development and in conjunction with one another and
with the environment, the genes determine the various physical

and mental characteristics which make up the mature plant or
It is very difficult to obtain a reasonably accurate esti-

animal.

mate of the size of a gene, but it has been suggested that it is
about the size of some viruses and that its maximum dimensions are roughly about 100

X 20 X 20 mix.*

The number of genes in a plant or animal is apparently large.
Not many organisms have been studied intensively but in Drosophila melanog aster, over 500 genes have been discovered, and in

These are by no means the total numbers
of genes in these organisms but only the numbers found and
identified; they are probably only small fractions of the total

Zea mays, about 400.

numbers.
* One

Muller has estimated that at least 1150 genes are

one one-thousandth of a millimeter.
millimicron and is one one-thousandth of a micron.
fi,

or micron,

is

16

A m/i is a

17

Alleles

present in Drosophila melanog aster, and Waddington places the
figure

for this

fruit

fly

and

also

for

lilies

at possibly about

10,000.

Alleles
It

was pointed out in Chapter

1

that the chromosomes are

always found in pairs in typical organisms. Since each chromosome always has an identical mate or homologue, the genes must

Fig. 6. Male (left) and female of wild type of Drosophila melanogaster.
Note the sex combs on the legs of the male. Xl9- Camera lucida

drawings.

For example, in the long, V-shaped
chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster, known as chromosome
II, a gene about one-third of the distance from one end affects
Since every normal fly
the shape and size of the fly's wing.
of that species has two of those chromosomes, every normal fly
must have two of those genes that affect the wing. In other
words, on each homologous chromosome there is a gene at a
Howparticular place or locus that always affects the wing.
ever, the genes at that locus on the two homologues do not
always affect the wing in the same manner in all flies of that
species.
In most flies, the two genes will be alike, and each
will act to produce a normal, or wild-type, wing in the adult
(Fig. 6). Adult flies possessing those two genes will have normal
wings. There are other flies, however, in which the two genes

also always be found in pairs.

Chromosomes and Genes

18

chromosome II will act differently on the
developing wing of the fly and will produce in the adult not
normal or wild-type wings, but very small, vestigial wings (Fig.
at that same place in

7).

Flies with these tiny, undeveloped wings cannot fly but

can only crawl about like ants. Obviously, such vestigial-winged
flies would be at a great disadvantage in nature and would probably not survive in competition with their wild-type relatives.
They have been found in laboratory stocks and have been pre-

FiG. 7.

wings.

Mutant wing types of Drosophila melanogaster. Left, ^'estigial
Both are female. Xl8. Camera lucida

Right, miniature wings.

drawings.

served for many generations in an environment free from competition and in which they do not have to travel great distances
in search of food.

The important thing to note is that the genes at that particular
locus of the second chromosome always affect the wing, even
though the effect produced is not always the same. The gene that
produces a normal wing and the gene for vestigal wing cannot,
therefore, be so very different.

They must be much more alike

than either one would be like the gene that produces white eyes
or the gene that produces yellow body color or the gene that
produces forked

bristles, hairless

body, or purple-colored eyes.

They are very similar, although not identical, not so much because they affect the same part of the body as because they are
at the same locus. In a sense, then, they are merely variants of
the same gene, and not two distinctly different genes.

The

19

Alleles

form of the
"normal-wing gene" which is present at that locus and vice
Two genes at the same locus but producing somewhat
versa.
"vestigial gene" can be considered just a different

different effects on the developing individual are called allelo-

morphs or, more usually, alleles. Therefore, the vestigial gene
is an allele of the gene for normal wings which is at the same
locus.

two normal-wing genes have normal wings and
those with two genes for vestigial wings will have vestigial wings.
Every normal fly must have two members of chromosome II, but
some may have one chromosome with a gene for normal wings
Flies with

and the other with a gene for vestigial wings.
well be asked whether the wings of such
vestigial,

intermediate, or something

The question may

flies

else.

will be

normal,

In this particular

case, such an adult fly would have normal wings because it hap-

pens that the effect produced by the wild-type gene during the
development of the fly completely overcomes the effect produced

by the vestigial gene.

Whenever one allele alone is expressed

to the exclusion of the other, the allele whose effect is expressed
is

said to be dominant over the one whose effect is not expressed,

known as a recessive gene.

An organism in which the two genes at one locus are identical
homozygous for that gene. Thus the vestigial-winged fly and
the fly with the two genes for normal wing are homozygous. The
normal-winged fly that has one dominant gene and also the
is

recessive allele

for vestigial

wings

is

heterozygous.

An indi-

vidual in which the two genes at any one locus are different is

heterozygous for that pair of alleles.

The two members

of all pairs of alleles

do not show this

some heterozygous individuals are intermediate in nature. Although it is usually true
that the wild-type or "'normal" gene is dominant over its allele,
sometimes the "normal" gene is recessive to the "abnormal."
Thus in Drosophila the gene for bar eyes that produces an eye
in which most of the facets are undeveloped is partially dominant over the normal, and the gene for hairless body is dominant
over its allele that produces the wild-type or normal hairy condition.
Such traits as normal wings, vestigial wings, bar eyes, and
dominant-recessive

relationship

for

hairless bodies are frequently referred to as characters.

Chromosomes and Genes

20

Heterozygous plants and animals show that

all

that look alike are not necessarily genetically alike.

individuals

Both the

homozygous wild-type fly and the heterozygote have perfectly
normal wings and are absolutely indistinguishable in appearance. It can be shown that they are different genetically, however, when they are used to produce subsequent generations. The
vestigial-winged fly, on the other hand, must have two genes
for vestigial wings because if it had even one of the dominant
genes for normal wings it would have normal wings. It is possible, therefore, to identify flies that are homozygous recessives
by examining their external appearance, or phenotype, and thus
to know their genetic constitution, or genotype.

All individuals

homozygous for a recessive gene are alike both phenoAll
typically and genotypically (with respect to that locus).
individuals that have a dominant gene are alike phenotypically
but may be different genotypically for they may be either homozygous for the dominant allele or heterozygous.
that are

Gene Symbols
It is rather cumbersome to write "the gene for vestigial wings"

and ''the gene for normal wings." The geneticist, like the mathematician and the chemist, substitutes symbols for such expressions, and with a little practice such symbols are readily grasped.
The gene for vestigial wings has the symbol vg, and its allele
for normal wings has the symbol Vg. The small v indicates that
the gene is recessive, the large V indicates a dominant gene. It
happens that the allele for the vestigial gene is the one present
in flies gathered in from nature; and that this gene is the one
found in such wild-type flies is indicated by research workers
on Drosophila by modifying the symbol to read vg+ or +^^ or
frequently by using merely a plus sign.
the symbol

In this book, however,

Vg is generally used as it is less confusing to begin-

ning students.
In choosing symbols to represent genes, it is helpful although
not essential for the symbol to indicate the name and chief effect
of the gene. The symbol vg cannot be mistaken for any gene

Vg indicates clearly that
However, when
this gene is the dominant allele of vestigial.
other than vestigial, and the symbol

first

studied genetically, symbols were

assigned to genes arbitrarily.

In Mendel's original paper, for

plants and animals were

Pleitropy

example, the genes

21

A and a stand, respectively, for peas with

round and with wrinkled seeds;

B and b symbolize genes for

yellow and green cotyledons; and

C and c represent genes for

gray-brown and white seed coats. In organisms in which over
twenty-six pairs of alleles have been discovered, the alphabet is
insufficient to

symbolize

all

the genes.

It

was soon recognized

that various combinations of letters were necessary to provide

symbols for such large numbers of genes. Thus in Drosophila
melanog aster, v stands for the vermilion-eye gene, vg for the
gene for vestigial, and ve for the gene for veinlet.

When this

system was introduced, the second letter was written as a subscript, as Vg, Vg, Ve,

and Ve, but the present system was adopted

because it was easier to set in type.
Pleitropy
Since the genes
all

Vg and vg determine the shape of the wing if

other genes that affect the wing are wild-type genes, it might

be inferred that they have no effect except on the shape of the
wing.

This

is

not true for actually one gene may affect many

Some parts are affected in a more striking
manner than others, however, and a gene is usually named from
the most striking effect that it produces. In Drosophila melanoparts of the body.

gaster, the

gene Delta produces a delta-like expansion where

the longitudinal vein of the wing joins the marginal vein; but
it

also

produces smaller, rougher eyes, modifications of the

and still other changes of an even less striking nature.
It receives its name and symbol, Dl, however, from one of its
most striking effects. Similarly the genes at the locus for white
eye affect not only the color of the eye but also the shape and
color of the spermatheca. Another rather curious case of pleiotropy, or the multiple effects of genes, is shown by the white- and
red-eye genes. Flies with yellow bodies may have either red or
bristles,

white eyes.

In the white-eyed flies, the gene for eye color affects

the yellow pigment also, and affects it in such a way that it is
easily extracted with alcohol.

Often cited as examples of pleiotropy are instances of pigment
formation in plants where a certain gene may produce a red

pigment

in

several organs such as flowers, stems,

and

leaves.

Considering these as separate organs, one may be inclined to
think of the gene as simultaneously producing red flowers, red

Chromosomes and Genes

22

stems, and red leaves, and therefore as having several different

probably more correct to think of the gene as
having one general effect, the production of pigment, and not
several effects, for, after all, the plant is a unit and it is only
It is

effects.

the botanist who subdivides it into organs.

A very interesting situation that might readily be classed as
were not sufficiently analyzed is the effect progene in poultry. This gene is an incom-

pleiotropy

if it

duced by

the frizzle

Frizzle fowl.

FiG. 8.

Lejt, a homozygous frizzle male.

Center, homozy-

gous frizzle female. Right, bare homozygous frizzle female.
courtesy of Dr. W. Landauer.)

pletely

dominant gene.

In fowl homozygous for

(Photographs

frizzle

(Fig.

8), the feathers are very abnormal, being narrow and curled

very fragile.

and

They break off easily, so that after a while such

birds are almost featherless.

wavy rather than

curly,

In heterozygotes the feathers are

and the whole

frizzled effect is

less

pronounced.

The frizzled and fragile condition of the feathers is apparently
the only direct effect of the frizzle gene, but fowl homozygous
from normal fowl in many other
When all or most of the feathers are broken off, their

for this gene are very different

respects.

insulating effect is naturally lost, and such naked fowl lose their

body heat much more rapidly than normal fowl. To compensate for this excess loss of heat, a number of adaptations take
place in the bodies of the frizzle individuals. Their basal metabolism is strikingly accelerated, thus increasing the supply of hor-

mones from the thyroid and adrenal glands. This increased
hormone production severely taxes these glands and results in

Unit Characters and Gene Interaction

changes in the glands themselves.

23

The extent of these changes

depends largely upon the temperature at which the birds are
kept. If the temperature is as favorable as possible, the thyroid
gland may increase in size but be otherwise normal; but if the
conditions under which the fowl are kept are less favorable, the
gland may be hypertrophied. If the birds are raised in a low
temperature, the loss of heat is so great and there is such a drain

upon the thyroid glands that they may become exhausted and
atrophied.

As a consequence of heat loss, the oxygen consumption is
increased by an increase in the rate of the heart beat, accompanied by hypertrophy of the heart and an increase in the volume of the circulating blood. The excess loss of body heat also
calls for a greater amount of heat production by the fowl, partly
accomplished by an increase in the amount of food they eat.
The increased food intake produces an enlargement of the pancreas, crop, gizzard, and kidneys.
Frizzle fowl, therefore, show
changes not only in their feathers but also in the nature and size
of a number of their organs. All these effects are brought about
because of one gene, but the effect on the feathers is the only
direct effect that that particular gene has.

All the other effects

are indirect, not caused by the gene, although they are the result

they therefore might easily be
wrongly interpreted as an example of pleiotropy. Pleiotropy
refers only to the production of more than one direct effect by
a gene and does not include such cases of indirect effects.
of the presence of that gene;

Unit Characters and Gene Interaction

We have pointed out that flies with the gene Vg have normal
wings whereas those that are homozygous for vg have vestigial
wings.

In the earlier days of the science of genetics many similar

cases were observed in which one character appeared to be due
to one gene only whereas a ^'contrasting character" was due only

The notion that a pair of contrasting
characters was conditioned only by one pair of alleles led to the
suggestion that an individual was made up of a large number
of characters and that each one was the result of the action of

to the allele of that gene.

one

gene.

Such

monogenically

called unit characters,

conditioned

characters

were

and an individual was thought to be a

Chromosomes and Genes

24

mosaic of these unit characters. Such a position is a very extreme one and, for most characters, is undoubtedly unsound.
In chromosome I in Drosophila melanogaster there is another
pair of allelic genes which affect the shape of the wing. Flies
homozygous for the gene m have miniature wings (Fig. 7) much

wing but considerably smaller. Wild-type
which is dominant over the gene for miniaflies have the gene
previously stated that wild-type flies had
had
ture wings. We
gene. Is this
the Vg gene and now we say that they have the
like the wild-type

M

M

inconsistent?

Actually the statements that Vg produces a wild-

type wing and that

M produces a wild-type wing are erroneous
made by people who

although such statements are frequently

understand the correct situation.

produced by Vg alone or by
genes acting together.

The wild-type wing

M alone but

is

is

not

the result of both

In other words, the wild-type wing

is

not a unit character because it is not produced by only one gene.
Similarly, the miniature wing is not the result of

m alone but of

m working in conjunction with Vg.

Gene Vg, therefore, does not
produce a normal wing; it merely produces a normal wing if
is present.
Gene vg, likewise, produces a vestigial wing in the

M

presence of
if

M but produces a type known as vestigial-miniature

m is present.

Practically, the last type

is

indistinguishable

phenotypically from a vestigial.

The early notion of unit characters certainly cannot apply in
this situation, but it is easy to see how it might have developed.
flies,

If a geneticist has only wild-type

he has flies which all have the

and vestigial stocks of

M gene. Since

his wild-type

his

flies

vestigial
are
MM genotypically and
vgvg MM, the M gene
not important, and apparently wing
shape
determined by Vg and vg alone. Unless he later obtained some miniature
the presence of gene M would never
flies

are

VgVg

is

is

flies,

be detected and normal and vestigial wings would act simply as
unit characters.

If,

now, another geneticist had only wild-type

{VgVg MM) and miniature {VgVg mm) flies, the presence of Vg
would never be revealed, and wing shape would appear to be
conditioned only by the genes
and yn. If these two geneticists
then got together and traded their stocks, by making the appro-

M

priate crosses they would learn of the presence of both pairs of

genes and would realize that wild-type, vestigial, and miniature

Unit Characters and Gene Interaction

25

were not unit characters but were due to the interaction of two
pairs of genes.

The situation is not even so simple as we have just pictured it.
The wild-type wing is due not only to Vg and
but also to the
alleles of the genes that produce cut wing, jammed wing, curved

M

wing, plexus wing, curled wing, bent wing, and other wing variations.

A partial formula for the wild-type wing, then, would be

CtCtMM jjVgVgCC PxPxCuCuBtBt; a miniature fly would
be CtCt

mm ijVgVg CC PxPxCuCuBtBt] and a vestigial fly

would be CtCtMM jjvgvgCC PxPxCuCuBtBt.
This example shows that the wild-type fly has a certain combination of genes. It shows further that the miniature fly differs from the wild-type in one certain pair whereas the vestigial
differs from the wild-type with respect to a different pair.
Ordinarily, in discussing miniature versus wild-type flies, we do not
formula in either case but only the

bother to write the

full

differential, which is

M and m; we merely understand and imply

that the other genes are present and are alike in each case.

When

we say that a vestigial fly is vgvg we recognize that these other
genes are present but we omit them from the formula because
they are the same in both the vestigial and wild-type flies. It
is

incorrect to say that

Vg produces wild-type flies and vg pro-

duces vestigial, but it is permissible as a time and space saver

provided we realize that a number of other genes which affect
the

wing are also present and that they are the same

in

each case.
This example of gene interaction

is

further interesting be-

cause it shows that the wild-type fly does not necessarily consist

At the locus of jammed, the wild-type
fly has the recessive gene, whereas the nonwild-type, jammed, is
produced by the dominant allele. The wild-type fly has a certain
combination of genes. Each other type has a somewhat difof all

dominant genes.

Throughout the course of evolution, flies
with the wild-type wing apparently were better adapted to their
environment than the other types. Because of this evolutionary
factor, a certain combination of genes is found much more frequently in nature than any other combination. We frequently
think of this more frequent combination as the normal one
ferent combination.

because it is the one present in almost all the flies we gather in

Chromosomes and Genes

26

from nature and because the shape of the wing it produces looks
more efficient and more suitable than the wing of any other
gene combination.

Gene interaction is by no means confined to wing shape in
Drosophila.
Eye color and other traits in this fly and many
characters in many other plants and animals have proved to be

many genes rather than of the
action of one gene alone. In fact, so many examples of inter-

the result of the interaction of

action have been discovered that one wonders whether there
are

any true cases of unit characters.

Certainly, in the broad

sense the unit character idea is philosophically untenable for the

organism is a unit and not a mosaic of independent structures.
Since all the parts of a body act together for the benefit of the

body as a whole, it is difficult not to believe that all the genes
must act together also. Although all genes probably affect all
parts of the body at least slightly or in an indirect manner, some
genes affect some parts more strongly than others. In a sense,
probably all genes have multiple effects and probably all characters are influenced to some degree by a number of genes.

The Genome
It has been mentioned previously that Drosophila melanogaster

has eight chromosomes, or two sets of four chromosomes in its
somatic

a

much more significant way of

chromosome number.

Since each chromosome has a

cells.

stating the

In fact, this

is

mate, each gene must have a mate (either a similar gene or an
allele).

Therefore, this fly also has two sets of genes.

One set

located in one set of four chromosomes, and the other set of

is

genes is located in the other four chromosomes.

Since each set

of four chromosomes w^ith its set of genes is known as a genome,
this particular species of fly has two genomes.

Similarly, in maize there
its

is

one set of ten chromosomes with

genes and another set of ten chromosomes which are morpho-

logically identical with the first ten

the genes of the

first

set.

and have genes

allelic to

Like Drosophila melanogaster, this

plant also has two genomes.

Many plants and most animals are similarly composed of two
genomes, but in a number of plants and in some animals three,
Occasionally, also, an
four, or more genomes have been found.

Multiple Alleles

27

organism has been produced which has only one genome, but
such organisms are usually very weak and delicate. With a few
exceptions, every locus must be represented at least once for the

organism to survive.

If a piece of a

chromosome is missing, as

may result from subjecting germ cells to X-rays, a deficiency
same region of two
homologous chromosomes, it is homozygous, and if the deficiency
is in one chromosome but not in the homologue, it is heterozygous.
Heterozygous deficiencies frequently have marked phenotypic
effects which are sometimes mistaken for the results of gene
action. Frequently organisms with heterozygous deficiencies are
less viable than those with two complete genomes, and this is
especially marked when the missing segment is a long one. AVhen
the deficiency is homozygous, the organism usually fails to survive past the egg stage.
In a few cases, however, where the
deficiency is very short, as in the yellow deficiency of Drosophila,
the organism may occasionally reach the adult stage.
From
results.

If the deficiency is present in the

these deficiencies we can conclude that, with a very few exceptions, at least

one member of every pair of genes must be pres-

ent for an organism to develop normally and that in most organ-

isms two complete genomes provide the best background for

normal development.

Plants with more than two genomes are

discussed in later sections of this book.

Multiple Alleles

In normal diploid organisms, there are two genomes and every
locus is represented by two genes.

It

has been shown, however,

that the two genes at a given locus are not necessarily alike, for
in heterozygotes one is an allele of the other

;

but in every hetero-

zygote, there can be only two different alleles at

any one locus.

Although any individual diploid plant or animal may have
only two genes at any given locus, in many species three or more
different alleles may be found at the same locus of a given
chromosome distributed among the different individuals, with no
individual having more than two. For example, in the common
bean, some plants may be homozygous for G, a gene that determines yellow pods and green foliage, and others may be homozygous for the allele g, when they will have yellow pods and
yellow foliage. Other plants may be Gg and will look like GG
plants because G is completely dominant to g. However, in some

Chromosomes and Genes

28

strains of beans, another gene, Gr,

found at the same locus.
This gene produces plants with green p6ds and green foliage.
is

At this locus, therefore, three alleles may be found, but any one
bean plant can have only two of the three. More than two
alleles at

one locus are called multiple alleles, and series of mul-

tiple alleles are quite

common among plants and animals.

In

beans, Gr is dominant over both G and g, and G is dominant over
g.

Any plant may be homozygous for any one of the three or

heterozygous for any two.

Thus these combinations will result:

Questions and Problems

29

Chapter 3

GENES AND CHARACTERS
Genes act at various stages during the development of the
organism to produce definite characters but, although each gene
acts always in cooperation with other genes and with the environ-

ment, the effect of the environment may not be the same upon all
genes.

Some genes behave so differently in different environments

that the characters they produce are strikingly different; other

genes appear to produce the same result under all known environ-

mental conditions. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that
heredity and environment are factors which are continually
interacting. The developed character is the product of a certain
hereditary constitution and a certain set of environmental conditions both of which are acting during development to produce
the character in question.

Environmental Effects

As an

illustration of characters

which develop

in the

same

way under different environmental conditions and of those which
are different

if

the environment

is

different,

some of the genes

that affect the color of the fruits in maize may be cited.

Certain

always have white ears because they have genes that
produce white fruits under apparently all conditions of the environment.
Other strains have genes that produce red fruits
even when the plant develops under a variety of conditions, and
strains

In some strains, however, there is a gene that produces different results, depending
upon whether the ear is kept dark or is exposed to the light as it
develops (Fig. 9). If the ears of plants that have this "sun-red"
such strains always have red-fruited ears.

gene are allowed to mature normally in their husks w^here they

completely protected from sunlight, the mature ears are
white.
On the other hand, if the husks are removed from the
are

developing ear, the ear turns a bright red.

If only portions of

the ear are exposed, only those portions will become red; the
30

Environmental Effects
other parts will remain white.

31

The sun-red gene, therefore, reacts

to produce a white ear if the environment of the ear is complete

darkness but produces a red ear if the ear

is

developed in the

Red and white ears in maize. The left ear is white and the
a red pericarp t3^pe. The two center ears are of the sun-red
type and are white where covered and red where exposed to the sun. The
red pericarp t3^pe is red whether covered or exposed.
The few colored
Fig. 9.

right ear

is

grains in the white part of the sun-red ears are the result of stray pollen.

(Photographs by Dr.
light.

W. Brooks Hamilton.)

This is a different gene from the normal red pericarp gene,

which produces red ears no matter whether the developing ear
is

kept light or dark.

The effect of temperature on the gene vg in Drosophila melano-

Genes and Characters

32

gaster has been studied in considerable detail

and

is

another

good example of the principle that some genes produce different
phenotypes if they act in different environments. Under the
environment in which the flies normally develop, homozygous
vg flies have very small and very poorly developed wings when
compared to those with the wild-type allele. Such flies are nor-

mally raised around "room temperature," or about 20° to 25° C.
If, however, homozygous vg flies are raised during the larval
stage at various temperatures from 14° to 34° C, the wings of
the adult will be very different in size and shape. The wings of

and are more poorly developed
than those of flies raised at 22°. At increasing larval temperatures, the adult wings become increasingly larger and more and
flies

raised at 14° are smaller

more like the wing of a wild-type, Vg, fly.
Penetrance and Expressivity

The statement made in Chapter 2, that an individual that is
homozygous for a given recessive gene is phenotypically recesmost of the genes that have been studied
thoroughly, but some genes prove to be exceptions. All flies of
Drosophila melanogaster that are homozygous for vestigial have
vestigial wings; but only about 70 per cent of the human beings
that are homozygous for the recessive gene for susceptibility to
Such genes as
poliomyelitis acquire the disease when exposed.
vg are said to have complete penetrance whereas the gene for
sive,

is

true

for

poliomyelitis has only 70 per cent penetrance.

In other words,

penetrance of a gene is the percentage of all the individuals pos-

and showing phenotypically the character that
is determined by it.
If all homozygous recessives show the resessing that gene

cessive character, the penetrance of that gene

is

complete.

If

almost but not quite all the individuals show it, the gene has a
high penetrance

;

but if only a small percentage of the individuals

are phenotypically recessive, the

gene has a low penetrance.

Dominant genes as well as recessives may differ in their penetrance.

Genes are known with various intermediate degrees of penetrance.
Because genes with high penetrance are the easiest to
work with, such genes have been the ones most frequently studied,
but in studying

human

genetics

many genes are encountered

Penetrance and Expressivity

33

which have a low or intermediate penetrance. If we are to
learn how inherited traits are transmitted in hmiian beings, these

The analysis of poliomyelitis in McDowell County in West Virginia by Addair and Snyder points
genes cannot be ignored.

to the conclusion that this gene for susceptibility has a reduced

penetrance as only 29 individuals contracted infantile paralysis
whereas the relationships of the families studied would suggest
that 40 individuals were homozygous for the recessive gene for
susceptibility.

In a case in fowl, reported by Hutt and Child, a

recessive gene for inherited tremor

is

present in which the af-

fected individuals continually shake to a greater or lesser extent.

Their breeding
This gene has an unusually low penetrance.
studies indicated that about 112 individuals were homozygous
recessive for this gene, but actually only 39 chicks

showed the

about 35
per cent. Genes are known with a lower penetrance than that,
such as the gene for abnormal abdomen in Drosophila funehris, in
character.

Therefore, the penetrance of this gene

is

which the penetrance is only 10 to 15 per cent.
It is not always clear why a given gene has a low or high
penetrance. It is probably due to the nature of the gene itself.
If a certain gene

has low penetrance, apparently its action dur-

weak and can easily be disturbed by the
action of other genes and also by external factors. These genes

ing development

is

with low penetrance are so easily affected that in most individuals their action is negatived completely and the individual
develops the character of an

allele.

The action of genes with

high or complete penetrance is so strong that in few or no cases

can

it

be upset or blocked by any other combination of genes

or by environmental conditions.

Hutt and Child interpret the low penetrance of the gene for
tremor as the result of modifying genes. In some recessive individuals these modifying genes are powerful enough to prevent

the recessive gene from being expressed in any degree; in other
individuals some or all of these modifying genes are absent and
the

individuals

are

recessive

phenotypically.

In Drosophila

melanogaster, the gene giant has a low penetrance, but environmental conditions are responsible. If the food is so scanty that
there is extreme competition among the larvae, the action of the
recessive gene for giant is inhibited in the homozygotes and the
adults are normal in

size.

Genes and Characters

34

Thirty-nine chicks in Hutt and Child's study showed the
tremor character, but the extent to which it appeared varied
greatly in different individuals.

In some chicks this tremor was

so pronounced that they could not even stand up, whereas others

showed only a barely perceptible tremor. Various intermediate
This difference is known as the
conditions were observed.
Penetrance and expressivity are
expressivity of the character.
not the same thing. In determining penetrance, every chick was
counted that manifested the character in any degree irrespective
of the extent of the expression of the character in that individual.

In determining the penetrance of the gene for poliomyelitis, Addair and Snyder also took expressivity into account. Although
cases with high expressivity were readily recognized, the possibility existed that there might have

been susceptible individuals
in which the expressivity was so low that the infection produced
only a fever or other mild illness instead of the usual crippling
paralysis.

A careful check was made to learn whether any

brothers or sisters of paralyzed children had mild cases during
the period when the less fortunate members of their family were
Since no such cases were found, it seemed clear that
affected.

the expressivity of the gene

was high and that the penetrance

was not complete.
Inherited Characters in Plants and Animals

Several examples of characters produced by one or more genes

have been mentioned in this and the last chapters; many more
are discussed later in this book. We might mention here, however, that all organs of plants and animals are under genie control.
In plants, a list of inherited characters would include stem
height, length of internodes, type of branching, leaf shape, chloro-

phyll deficiencies, flower color and color patterns (Fig. 10), shape
of flower parts, shape of fruit, color of seed coats

and endo-

In animals we could list such
sperm, and even seedlessness.
traits as abnormalities of bone growth in the skull and other
bones (Fig. 11), the presence of excess fluid between the brain

and the skull, absence or reduction of the jaws, eye color, congenital cataract, color of the fur or feathers (Fig. 12), albinism,

and weight,
glandular abnormalities, and many more far too numerous to
mention. Dunn and his co-workers described in 1940 a very

woolly hair, hairlessness, inherited bleeding,

size

Inherited Characters in Plants and Animals

Flower color patterns in Nemesia strumosa.

Fig. 10.

flower is cut along both sides of the tube and

C Sp Gr Ro.

red type with the genotype,

C sp Gr Ro.

tion of red;

Xl6.

is

For clarity, each

flattened out.

Left, the

Center, the splotched modifica-

Right, the red outline modification;

C Sp Grro.

(From Riley in the Botanical Gazette.)

Harelip in the mouse.

Fig. 11.

born normal

(left)

and harelip

Ventral view of the cranium of a new-

(right)

mouse,

a, incisor

vomer;

maxilla;

c,

palatine process of maxilla;

/,

maxilla;

h,

presphenoid;

alisphenoid;

palatine;

i,

process of the alisphenoid;
in the

35

Anatomical Record.)

I,

;',

basisphenoid.

g,

alveolus; b, pre-

alveolar process of
k,

inner pterygoid

(Courtesy of Dr. S. C. Reed,

Genes and Characters

36

Fig. 12.

Inherited coat colors in rabbits,

(a)

normal,

CC;

(b)

chin-

Himalayan, c^c^; (d) albino, cc. These genes form a
(From Keeler in the Journal of 'Heredity.)
series of multiple alleles.
chilla,

c<^''cc^*;

Fig. 13.

(c)

An adult mouse showing a short-tail mutation.

present at the base of the tail, but not at the tip.

Vertebrae are

(From Dunn, Glueck-

sohn-Schoenheimer, and Bryson in the Journal of Heredity.)

Some Characters in Human Beings

37

body structure of mice. The
dominant gene, Sd, when heterozygous, produces either short
or no tails, often shortened or crooked spines, abnormalities of
the kidneys, and a generally lowered vitality (Fig. 13).
The
homozygotes are completely tailless, have spines divided by a
cleft into two parts, have no kidneys or external genitalia, and
die shortly after birth.
This whole complex of characters beinteresting gene that affects the

haves as a unit.

Some Characters in Human Beings
For several reasons it is far more difficult to study the genetics
of human beings than inheritance in plants or in other animals.
The technique which is widely used in studying the way the
genes of plants and other animals are distributed among individuals, long known as the pedigree culture method, cannot be
applied to

man because of the social nature of human beings.

Also,

far

it

is

more

the environmental

difficult

to control or at least to analyze

conditions under which

human

beings de-

velop than those of other organisms, and unless the environment

can be eliminated as a variable, our genetic results are always
open to criticism. Many of the characters studied in other forms
are unit characters in which one gene alone is mainly responsible

development of a character; in human beings many of
the characters which have been studied appear to be caused by
the interaction of a number of different genes and are therefore
much more difiicult to analyze. Another complicating factor is
that in plants or other animals we can often deal with genes
having high penetrance, whereas in human beings many genes
seem to have reduced penetrance. Although several hundred
characters in human beings have been observed and studied, our
knowledge is satisfactory for only a small percentage.
for the

Studies in the heredity of

human traits are complicated also

fact that in some instances two or more genes in difchromosomes may independently produce the same character, or characters that appear the same unless they are carefully studied.
In human beings, some of our supposed traits,
especially some of the psychological ones, are themselves poorly
understood, and until the characters are recognized and distin-

by the
ferent

guished, the genes that are active in their production cannot be
identified.

Insanity illustrates the last point.

Some years ago,

Genes and Characters

38

geneticists were interested in the inheritance of insanity but could

make little progress in determining what genes were involved in
More recently, the psychologist has informed us
its production.
that what has usually been termed ''insanity" may be any one

more different conditions. It is obviously impossible to treat twenty characters some of which may be due to
dominant genes and some to recessives, some of which may have
high penetrance while others have low, as one character and
of twenty or

expect to get a satisfactory genetic analysis.

A number of inherited conditions in man are

fairly

appears that every part of the body and

known, and it

well

many

and psychological processes can be affected by
genes or combinations of genes. Sometimes dominant genes are
involved and sometimes recessives seem to be responsible. Often
the condition is so difficult to analyze or so few cases have been
found that on the basis of present knowledge it is impossible to
determine the exact nature and number of genes involved even
though the available evidence points distinctly to an inherited
condition.
Some of the more striking or more important discoveries will be cited here, but no attempt will be made to give
physiological

a complete

list

of inherited

human traits.

Genes have been found which affect the color of the skin.
Probably the most familiar is the recessive albino gene which
is similar to the albino gene in other animals and completely
prevents the formation of pigmentation in the skin, eyes, and
Other differences in skin color such as the skin of the
black and yellow races in contrast to the white race are usually
hair.

of interest to

most people.

In both these situations, multiple

Negroes seem to differ from whites
In both there is a lack of dominance,

genes seem to be involved.

by two pairs of genes.
and all four genes interact cumulatively. Thus an individual
with the genotype ^4.4. BB would be very dark, whereas an aa 55
Mulattoes with A A Bb or Aa BB
individual would be white.
combinations would be dark, those with Aa Bb, AA bb, or aa BB
would be intermediate, and those with the genes Aa bb or aa Bb
would be between an intermediate and a pure white. Other modifying genes might also operate to influence these main types.
The gene differences between the white and yellow races also involve several pairs of

alleles.

So77ie

Characters in Human Beings

39

Negroes with an interesting piebald spotting have been reported by Keeler.
Individuals with this dominant gene have
normal dark pigmentation in the head, back, hands, and feet except for a white head blaze and a white patch under the chin.
Their abdomen, sides, arms, and legs are generally white but are
speckled with small patches of normally pigmented skin. The
pattern of these individuals is essentially the same as that found
in the Dalmatian coach dog, the English rabbit, and Hereford
cattle.

Abnormal conditions of skin texture are known.

One of the

most striking is ichthyosis vulgaris, in which the skin is covered
with small, horny flakes or scales. This condition, the result
of a dominant gene, produces the "porcupine men" of the sideshow. Cockayne has listed an unusual abnormality, ichthyosis
hystri gravior, which occurs only in males. Their entire bodies,
except for the face, palms, and soles, are covered with dark brown
horny growths which appear after they are two months old. A
skin defect that can be quite serious is the inherited absence of

sweat glands. Individuals lacking these glands cannot perspire.
In warm weather they must go to a cooler region or must remain
in water or keep their clothes wet to prevent too great a rise in

body temperature.

may also affect the skin,

This condition

mammary glands, and mucous membranes, and
persons with this abnormality may be unable to shed tears.

nails, teeth, hair,

The condition is the result of a recessive gene.
Genes affecting the hair include a dominant gene that produces
a white forelock in otherwise dark hair. It was traced for five
successive generations in one family.

A curious character, the

dominant gene, affects the hair in the front of the
head in such a way that it falls out when it has grown to five
or six inches. When this hair has fallen out new hair comes in,
so that affected individuals always have short hair, or bangs,
over their foreheads. Other unusual and inherited hair conditions are woolly hair and a condition in which* the embryonic
hair continues to grow after birth in such abundance that an
individual with this dominant gene can appear in circus sideshows as a "dog-faced" man.

result of a

A number of genes affect the axial skeleton, producing abnormalities that may often have a very harmful effect.
for inherited hollow chest reported

The gene

by Snyder and Curtis pro-

Genes and Characters

40

duces a curious condition that apparently is not harmful in
the least. Individuals with this dominant gene have a depression in the chest that looks as if it had been produced by a ball

that had been pressed

in.

A far more harmful gene is the

dominant that produces cartilaginous growths on the bones.
Another dominant gene affects the bones in such a way that
they are easily broken; a person with this gene may have a
couple of dozen bone fractures during the course of his life.

The ateli-

Several types of dwarfism, or nanism, are inherited.

type or midget, in which the individual is correctly proportioned but much smaller in every way than a normal person,
otic

results apparently

from the interaction of two dominant genes.

The achondroplastic type appears also to be the result of two
interacting dominant genes.

When both dominants are present,

the person has shortened limbs but a normal-sized trunk.

Both

types of dwarfs may be found in side-shows.

Abnormalities of the fingers and toes are fairly numerous.

In

number of
A number of

Polydactyly, a condition that has been reported a
times, the individual has extra fingers or toes.
families

of

the white race have been studied

in

which

character appears to result from a dominant gene.

this

Negroes

with Polydactyly apparently are homozygous for a different

Hefner has recorded an interesting
case of a dominant gene for Polydactyly which is very variable
gene which

is

a recessive.

in its expressivity.

In some individuals, the terminal joint of

the thumb is long and slender and tends to taper to a point, but
the thumb is otherwise normal.

Other individuals have thumbs

which are long and finger-like and usually bent at a very decided
angle toward the index finger. In still others, there may be an
extra thumb which is joined to the metacarpal of one or both of

thumbs while an extra toe is present between
the big toe and the normal second toe. This condition appears
to be the result of one dominant gene, but it has appeared rather
these finger-like

irregularly in several families, indicating probably a gene with

reduced penetrance.

Other characters affecting the digits are

syndactyly, or webbed fingers and toes, which appears to be due

dominant gene in some families and a recessive in others,
brachydactyly, in which a dominant gene results in the absence
of the middle phalanx of each finger, causing it to be considerably

to a

Some Characters in Human Beings

41

shorter than normal, and minor streblomicrodactyly (Fig. 14) in
which the little fingers are bent. Symphalangism, or the fusion
,

of the phalangeal joints of the digits,

Fig. 14.

normality

Crooked
is

little

fingers

is

a character caused

(minor streblomicrodactyly).

especially noticeable in side view.

The

by

ab-

(Courtesy of Dr. R. A.

Hefner in the Journal of Heredity.)

a dominant gene.

Strandskov has reported a case of the inThis character is probably the
result of a dominant gene, although the number of cases is too
few for certainty; it is generally accompanied also by a slight
herited absence of thumbnails.

abnormality of the nails on some of the other fingers.

Genes and Characters

42

The color of the eyes is greatly affected by certain genes.

In

albinos, previously mentioned, the eye lacks color entirely (ex-

cept for the pink color produced by blood in the blood vessels of

the eye) because of a homozygous recessive gene.

In the pres-

ence of the allele of this gene, the eye is colored, but the specific
color depends upon the presence of other genes, the exact number

which is not always easy to determine. One pair of alleles
seems to produce a basic brown or blue, but these, and especially

of

the brown type, are considerably affected by other genes.

The

dominant of this pair, B, produces a purple-black color in the
uvea and choroid behind the iris and a brown layer in front of
the iris. Because of the latter pigment, the eyes appear brown.
In the homozygous recessives, only the first of these two layers
is present, and the eyes consequently are not brown and appear
blue or gray, depending upon the angle of reflected light, age of
the individual, and perhaps modifying genes. The brown type
can vary from a very dark brown to a light yellow-brown according to the presence of various modifying genes.

Eye defects are of many kinds.

Dominant genes are known

which cause ectopis lentis or a congenital displacement of the
lens, aniridia, the complete lack of an iris, and glaucoma, a
defect in which the normal drainage of the lymph from the eye
Congenital cataract
is blocked and the retina becomes atrophied.
is caused by a dominant gene with incomplete penetrance, for it
occasionally fails to appear in individuals possessing the gene.
Eye defects produced by recessive genes include a condition in
which the optic nerve becomes inflamed and atrophied, and
microphthahnus, in which the eyeball is very small and conimpaired or the affected individual is blind.
In some families a particular defect may be produced by a
dominant gene and in others by a recessive. Apparently during
sequently vision

is

the course of evolution, different genes appeared in different
individuals and probably at different times, producing the same

character or characters which are so nearly alike that they are

Examples include exnot separated into different categories.
treme shortsightedness or high myopia, which is brought about

by a recessive gene that produces a globe of unusual length or
by a dominant that causes the cornea to be too greatly curved.
Farsightedness or hyperopia is a condition in which the globe is
so short that the rays are focused behind instead of on the retina.

Some Characters in Human Beings

43

In most families it appears to be the result of a dominant gene
but in some instances is due to a recessive.

In nystagmus the

eyeball shows a continuously rolling movement.

In some families

this is the result of a recessive gene.

In others it is caused by a

dominant and the character, itself, is somewhat different for
the rolling of the eyeball is accompanied by movements of the
head. Nystagmus may be caused by environmental conditions
as well as by genes. Some injuries to the brain and some brain
tumors may cause the same condition as that brought about by
the dominant gene. This should caution us against a too hasty
judgment as to the inherited or noninherited nature of a certain
character.

An interesting ear abnormality reported by Potter is the result
of a dominant gene which causes the pinna to be small, deformed,

and inverted. Several genes that affect hearing are on record.
Deaf-mutes are born totally deaf. This character may be the
result of either one of two recessive genes, d and e, or both. If
both dominant alleles are present, the individual is normal, but
if a person is homozygous for either d, or e, or both, he is a deafOther inherited conditions of deafness are labyrinthine
deafness, in w^iich the auditory nerve begins to degenerate at

mute.

about forty years of age, and otosclerosis, a progressive deafness
which begins at about thirty.

A number of inherited tooth defects have been observed.
Dominant genes have been identified which cause such abnormaliabsence of the upper incisors, absence of certain incisors
and molars, lack of permanent upper canines, lack of two or more

ties as

wisdom teeth, supernumerary teeth, and defective enamel, resulting in brown teeth. The two center incisors of both jaws are
missing in some families as the result of a recessive gene.
In addition to various structural traits, we find that physiological

processes and susceptibilities to various diseases

may

come under gene control. The ability to taste certain substances
Blakeslee and some of his cois an interesting character.
workers showed that about seven people out of ten can taste
crystals of phenylthiocarbamide.

To them, it generally tastes

very bitter, although the strength of the taste varies with different people, and to some it appears to be salty. To the other
30 per cent it is tasteless. An examination of a number of
families has shown that the ability to taste is due to a certain

44

Genes and Characters

dominant gene and that the homozygous recessives detect no
taste.
Other genes are known that affect the sense of smell and
determine whether an individual can detect certain odors.
Other characters that have been reported are hereditary epistaxis or bleeding of the nose.
It is due to a dominant gene and
may be associated with red spots on the skin and a general susceptibility to colds and nasal infections. An inherited tendency
for susceptibility to certain diseases has been noted in many
families.

A recessive gene for susceptibility to poliomyelitis has

been discussed.

Recessive genes have also apparently been discovered that produce susceptibility to tuberculosis, scarlet fever,

and diphtheria.

Studies of inheritance of diseases of this nature

are complicated

by the

fact that a causative infectious agent

must be present

for the

disease to be contracted while other

conditions such as general health, insufficient food, and certain
conditions under which a person works
susceptibility.

Considering,

may contribute to his

however, that every person

exposed to the disease does not contract

who

and considering
the pedigrees of a number of people who have contracted it,
susceptibility or resistance to these diseases appears to depend
in part upon the homozygous condition of a certain recessive
is

it,

gene.

Sugar diabetes or diabetes mellitus is reported to be inherited
as a recessive.

It

may also, however, be caused by syphilis,
That a disease may

other diseases, or certain emotional states.

sometimes be caused solely by environmental factors does not
preclude the possibility that it may sometimes be inherited.
Actually, this disease may be caused by anything that disturbs
the functioning of the islands of Langerhans in the pancreas,
resulting in a normal secretion of these structures in a lower
amount than in healthy individuals. The cause of the disturbance

may be a disease or an emotional condition or a gene.
Certain genes appear to disturb the activity of the thyroid
gland, producing such conditions as goiter.
cessive

gene produces alkaptonuria,

a

Apparently a rein which a

condition

certain acid, alkapton, is present in the urine, causing it to turn

dark.

A very rare condition is steatorrhea, a condition in which

It appears to result from one or more pairs
Another very rare condition, reported by Macklin,
is porphyrinuria.
Caused by a homozygous recessive, it results

fat is not digested.

of recessives.

So?ne Characters in Human Beings

45

in the deposition of large quantities of pigment in the tissues,

bones, and teeth, and a red color in the urine.

seems to be the cause of a general
expressed in a great many forms.

allergic

A dominant gene
tendency which is

Some individuals possessing

have hay fever, some have eczema, some have hives,
some have asthma, and others exhibit still other forms of hyper-

this gene

sensitiveness.

The inheritance of psychological traits is, as a rule, more difficult to analyze than the inheritance of physical or of

physiological characters.

The most

difficult

of

all

is

many

general

intelligence, a trait that is not easy to define or to measure.

The

between various individuals are not
clear-cut and there is a wide range of such differences, with very
superior persons at one extreme and very inferior ones at the
differences in intelligence

The
genetic situation is complicated for apparently a large number
other and a continuous series of gradations between them.
of genes

is

involved in determining intelligence, and they

interact in a very complicated fashion.

accepted view

among

geneticists

may

It is a rather generally

that the upper limits of a

person's intelligence are determined

by his genotype, but how

nearly any individual ever reaches his upper limits depends

upon a great many factors such as training and other environmental conditions.
Certain grades of insanity are more readily susceptible of
genetic analysis partly because they are more readily recognized.

Dementia praecox apparently results from the interaction of
several recessive genes and is a condition in which a person
gradually withdraws into himself and lives in a dream world.
The manic-depressive type of insanity is also complex in its
inheritance and results from the interaction of several genes,
some of which appear to be dominants. A manic-depressive
has alternate periods of great elation and extreme depression.
These two types of insanity are hard to analyze genetically, but
that they can be identified simplifies the problem considerably.

Before they were recognized as distinct conditions and when
all types were lumped together under the term ''insanity," it was
impossible to make a genetic analysis.

Certain other cases of low-grade mentality have been studied
sufficiently for at least part of the hereditary cause of the condi-

tion to be known.

Huntington's chorea is known to be due to a

Genes and Characters

46

dominant gene with almost complete penetrance. Affected individuals show an uncontrollable twitching of head, body, and
limbs which develops in the adult and becomes progressively
worse. In spinal ataxia, which is due to the interaction of one
dominant gene and a homozygous condition at another locus,
the afferent nerve tracts become degenerated and the individual
loses his sense of equilibrium.

Many other inherited conditions

of mental disorders might be listed, but those that are mentioned

here should probably be sufficient to give a general picture of
the need for taking the genotype into account

when studying

the numerous types of low-grade mentality that are known.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Breeding results indicate that 103 plants are homozygous for the

dominant gene. A, but only 79 of them are A phenotypically.

What is

the penetrance of that gene?

An individual is born with six fingers on one hand, but, because
would make him a curiosity and handicap him socially, the extra
finger is removed shortly after birth. Would this affect his genetic constitution? Would it prevent his offspring from having six fingers?
2.

this

Chapter 4

REPRODUCTION AND MEIOSIS
It

is

frequently seen that the same character

may be pos-

by a number of individuals in different generations of a
family, and it is reasonable to assume that these individuals
must possess the same gene. One of the important problems of
genetics is the way these related individuals came to possess the
same gene. It happens that this problem of the distribution of
sessed

genes is probably the best-understood problem in genetics.
Since the genes are located in the chromosomes, the problem
of gene distribution becomes a problem of chromosome distribu-

and since chromosomes are found only in cells the whole
problem comes down to a study of how cells are transmitted
from one generation to another. Long years of study have
shown that at no time during the life of an individual does it
receive any cells from its parents except at the moment of
tion,

reproduction.

It is therefore important to understand the various

methods by which

living

organisms reproduce before delving

into the manner in which genes are distributed.

The fundamental processes of reproduction

are the

same in

plants and in animals although the details and accessory processes

may vary considerably.

In the simplest process an entire

individual divides into two, but this
stricted to the very lowest forms of

method is necessarily reIn many organisms a

life.

piece of an individual consisting of several cells
into a

may develop

new individual, as in the fragmentation of filamentous

algae and of certain coelenterates and flatworms, in the formation
of buds in Hydra

and some sponges, in the gemmules of certain
sponges and the gemmae of liverworts, and in various types of
vegetative reproduction in the higher plants.

methods involves the union of any cells;

None

of these

they are examples of

asexual reproduction.

In contrast to asexual reproduction

is

sexual reproduction,

which involves typically the union of two cells known as germ
47

.

Reproduction and Meiosis

48
cells or

gametes.

Some lower forms reproduce sexually by the

fusion of identical gametes, but a differentiation of the gametes
into male and female is the rule in the higher groups.

Reproduction and Life Cycles in Higher Animals
Sexual reproduction in the higher animals is generally brought

about by the union of two unlike gametes, each of which is
contributed by a different individual. One gamete, the egg, is
large and nonmotile, is produced by the female, is usually

and contains a nucleus and cytoplasm. In the cytoplasm is found the food or yolk. The male gamete, which is
much smaller than the egg, is known as the spermatozoon or
spherical,

simply the sperm.

It usually consists of three parts: the

head,

middle piece, and tail. The head is essentially a nucleus surrounded by a very thin layer of cytoplasm and is generally
spherical or elliptical in shape.
The middle piece is much
smaller than the head and, at least in some animals, contains

The tail is very long, extremely delicate, and is
a flagellum which propels the sperm from place to place. The
a centrosome.

union of an egg and a sperm is called fertilization.

This process

results in a cell, the zygote, which will develop into a new adult

individual of the same species as the parents.
It was stated previously that every cell of the body, with the

germ cells, contained the same number of
chromosomes. In man, the number in the somatic cells is 48
chromosomes or 24 pairs. If the germ cells were produced by
typical mitotic divisions and, therefore, if they had the same
number of chromosomes as the body cells, the number of
chromosomes of a species would double each generation. Thus
it would not be long before the chromosome number of all organisms would be in the thousands and even millions. Actually,
however, this does not happen for, with the development of sexual

exception of the

reproduction, a modification of the ordinary mitotic process has

developed which, in animals, produces gametes with half the

number of chromosomes as in the body cells of the parents. Thus
in each generation of human beings the body cells have 48 chromosomes and the gametes have 24. In discussing animals in
general, without reference to any particular species, it can be
said that the body cells contain 2n chromosomes and the germ
cells contain n, where n stands for a definite number.
This num-

Reproduction and Life Cycles in Higher Animals
ber happens to be 24 in man.
called the diploid

plex)

49

The 2n or somatic number is

(Greek, diploos, twofold, double; Latin, du-

number whereas the n or gametic number is generally re-

ferred to as the haploid (Greek, haploos, single; Latin, simplex)

and occasionally as the monoploid (Greek, monos, alone, only)
number.

The haploid number in the gametes is also called the reduced
number and is brought about by two successive mitoses which
from ordinary mitotic divisions in several important deThese peculiar mitoses do not occur in all parts of the
tails.
body but only in the ovary and testis. To differentiate them
from somatic cell divisions, these two divisions are called the
reduction divisions, meiosis, or, because they occur during the
maturation or differentiation of the germ cells, the maturation
differ

There are always two meiotic divisions, and consequently each cell that divides by meiosis produces four cells.
In the male animal, a number of cells in the testis become
set apart and generally become larger than the others. They are
the primary spermatocytes and they undergo the first meiotic
division, by which each forms two secondary spermatocytes.
The second meiotic division immediately follows, with the result
that four spermatids have been produced from each original
primary spermatocyte. These spermatids do not divide further,
but usually change their shape by elongating and by developing
a tail. Each becomes a mature spermatozoon.
In the ovary, when the eggs are about to form, certain cells
become very large. These primary oocytes divide to form two
divisions.

cells

One is large and contains all the
no more than a nucleus with some

but they are not alike.

stored food; the other

is

cytoplasm around it. This small cell is the first polar body and
remains attached to the large cell which is the secondary oocyte.
The secondary oocyte and frequently the first polar body, also,
then undergo the second meiotic division. The secondary oocyte
farms a large functional egg and a small, nonfunctional secondary polar body, whereas the first polar body, if it divides,
forms two polar bodies. Thus each primary oocyte forms either
three or four cells, but only one of them is functional.

The
eggs and sperm of the animals possess the haploid number of
chromosomes and unite to produce new individuals which like
In the higher animals, all the somatic

cells are diploid.

Reproduction and Meiosis

50

the parents have the diploid number.

A succession of events,

and including all the steps that
occur until a new individual at the same stage as the first is
The life cycle
found, is called the life cycle of the organism.
of most animals, including the vertebrates, is very simple.
starting with one stage of life

Reproduction and Life Cycles in Higher Plants
In plants above the Thallophytes and, indeed, in many algae

and fungi, reproduction is complicated by a more involved life
cycle than is generally found in the Animal Kingdom. Although
we frequently think that we can recognize the body of a certain
kind of plant, few of us except botanists recognize that in all
these higher plants the complete life cycle includes two different
plant bodies.

In the fern plant, for example, we are all familiar

with the often large, leafy structure that bears typical "fern
leaves."

These leaves bear minute spores

under side.

in clusters

on their

When these spores germinate, they do not produce

typical fern plants but small, flat, green bodies, perhaps half an

which lie close to the ground. These bodies
are fern plants just as much as the more familiar types and
they bear the gametes. When the gametes unite, a zygote is
inch long or

less,

produced which develops into the familiar type of fern plant.

Thus the complete life cycle of a fern includes two bodies: the
large body on which these spores are found, the sporophyte, and
the small body that bears the gametes, the gametophyte.
The meiotic divisions in the fern occur not in the formation
of the gametes, as in animals, but in the development of the

The sporophyte plant has 2n chromosomes and produces haploid spores. They germinate and by a series of regular
spores.

mitotic divisions produce the haploid

turn produces haploid gametes.
zygote, which, in turn,

body.

gametophyte, which in

They unite to form a diploid

develops into the diploid sporophyte

This alternate production of sporophyte and gameto-

phyte bodies is called alternation of generations.

The existence of two generations in the life cycle of the higher
plants can best be grasped from such a plant as the fern, where

each generation

is

throughout most of

independent structure.

its

life

a separate and

In the seed plant the gametophyte

reduced in size and complexity to only a few cells.

is

Reproduction and Life Cycles in Higher Plants

51

In the angiosperms, the sporophyte, commonly regarded as the
plant itself, bears two kinds of spores which in turn produce
two kinds of gametophytes. The male spores or microspores
are formed in the anthers of the flower. Cells towards the inside
of the anthers enlarge and become microspore mother cells or
microsporocytes. They undergo the usual two meiotic divisions,
and each forms four microspores. A microspore is a round cell

with one nucleus and, as it develops,

it

secretes about itself a

thick wall which is usually yellow and highly sculptured in such
a characteristic way that the species of plants can be identified

from the ridges and furrows of the microspore walls.

A micro-

spore is a one-nucleate pollen grain; but soon after it is formed,
the nucleus and sometimes also the cytoplasm divide into a tube

nucleus or tube cell and a generative nucleus or cell.

This two-

nucleate or two-celled pollen grain is a microgametophyte.

The female spores form from megaspore mother cells or megaThe female organ is the pistil

sporocytes, located in the ovules.
of the flower.

It is enlarged at the base into

an ovary which

contains one or more ovules, each of which can develop into a

Each ovule contains only one megasporocyte, and it divides,
by meiosis to form a row of four cells, each of which is a poten-

seed.

tial

megaspore.

Three of these cells degenerate and the fourth

enlarges to form a large functional megaspore or young embryo

The nucleus divides by ordinary mitosis to form two, four,
and finally eight nuclei within the one embryo sac. Three nu-

sac.

at each end and two in the center, and cell walls are
formed about the three at each end. One of the cells at one end

clei collect

embryo sac is the female gamete or egg. The embryo
sac at this stage is mature and is the female gametophyte or
of the

megagametophyte.

When the two-celled pollen grain is mature, it is liberated from
the anther and blows or is carried

by insects to the end of the

where it adheres. The wall of the pollen grain bursts,
and the protoplasm grows out as a pollen tube which grows down
pistil,

through the tissues of the pistil until it enters the ovary.
pollen tube is a later stage of the microgametophyte.

The

The tube

nucleus precedes and the generative nucleus follows farther be-

hind in the tube (Fig. 15). As the tube approaches the ovule^
the generative nucleus divides by mitosis to form two sperm
nuclei or male gametes.

The tube then passes through the micro-

Reproduction and Meiosis

52

The

pyle, a small hole in the ovule, and enters the embryo sac.

tube nucleus disintegrates, while one sperm nucleus fertilizes
the egg to form the zygote and the other unites with the two
nuclei at the center of the embryo sac, the polar nuclei, to

endosperm,

embryo.

sl

tissue in

which food is stored

form

for the developing

The zygote is the first stage of the new sporophyte.
Higher plants have a much more complicated life cycle than animals because

two generations are necessary to complete the entire cycle.

Meiosis

The

basis

the two

of the

between
and any two

difference

meiotic divisions

successive somatic mitoses is to be found
at the beginning of the
first

prophase of the

of the two meiotic divisions.

It has

been pointed out that the chromosome in
the resting stage is either a single struc-

composed of two chromonemata which are in such an intimate re-

ture or

is

lationship that they behave as a single
structure.

By the beginning of prophase

in an ordinary somatic mitosis, either the
FiG. 15.

Pollen tube

showing two sperm nuclei.

(Courtesy of Dr.

George H. Conant.)

chromonema has doubled or the
two chromonemata of each chromosome
have become sufficiently separated that
single

the chromosomes are definitely double

At the prophase of the first meiotic mitosis, however, the chromosome is still effectively single, just as it was in

structures.

fundamental difference between

the resting stage.

This

mitosis and the

meiotic division.

first

is

a

Another important difference is that shortly after the chromosomes appear, they begin to lie alongside one another in pairs.
Each chromosome pairs with the chromosome which is identical
with it in size and shape in other words, with its homologue.

—

In meiosis,

it

is

not until ajter the chromosomes have paired

chromosome becomes a double structure. After each
chromosome has become double, a chromatid from one homo-

that each

Meiosis

53

may break and the broken pieces join up with broken

logue

pieces of a chromatid of the homologous chromosome.

All these

processes occur in the first prophase, and consequently this stage
is

of

longer duration than the prophase of ordinary mitotic

divisions.
first

Cytologists have found it convenient to subdivide the

meiotic prophase into five substages.

At the beginning of the first prophase, the
chromosomes are present in the diploid number just as in a
mitotic prophase, but they are single throughout and not double.
First Projphase.

This stage of the

first

meiotic prophase

is

known as leptotene.

In leptotene the chromosomes are very long, thin threads probably corresponding to the chromonemata of the anaphase chro-

mosomes of the preceding mitotic division. They have a more
granular appearance than the chromosomes in prophase of a
somatic mitosis, and they often appear as loosely strung strings
(Fig. 16).

They are coiled loosely in

of the previous division.

Other morphological dif-

of beads of unequal size
relic

coils

ferentiations are not usually noticeable except that the centro-

mere is frequently stained more lightly and may at this stage
appear thicker than the rest of the chromosome.
Shortly after the chromosomes have appeared, they begin to
pair up, each with

its

homologue.

This pairing or synapsis,

which occurs during zygotene and continues until all the chromosomes are completely paired, is very precise, for each part of a

chromosome will lie exactly alongside the corresponding part of
its

partner.

This is true to such an extent that if pieces of one

chromosome are broken away or inverted, that chromosome and
its homologue will twist about so as to bring corresponding parts
together (Fig. 17). In most higher plants and in some animals
in which the chromosomes lie at random in the nucleus throughout leptotene and zygotene, the homologues may begin to pair
at any place, but sometimes they do so at the centromere or
at the ends.
In many animals and in some higher plants the
chromosomes may have the orientation of the preceding telophase so that one or sometimes both ends are pointed towards
one region of the nucleus.

In organisms with definitely oriented

or polarized chromosomes, pairing usually begins at the ends

nearest the nuclear membrane and continues along the chromo-

somes until they have completely paired.

When the chromo-

Reproduction and Meiosis

54

a

g

h

j

k

I

(c) pachytene;
anaphase;
first
metaphase;
diplotene; (e) diakinesis; (/)
(o?)
{g)
(;')
(/c) secmetaphase;
second
{h) first telophase; (i) second prophase;
ond anaphase; (0 second telophase. Diagrammatic.

Fig. 16.

Meiosis in plants: (a) leptotene; (6) zygotene;
first

Meiosis

55

somes are polarized they are sometimes said to be in the bouquet
stage.

Zygotene is followed by pachytene, a stage characterized by
The two homologous chromosomes
several important featm'es.
which had paired in zygotene now twist about one another in

Fig. 17.

Chromosome pairing in which one of the pairing homologues

has a deleted or an inverted segment:
intercalaiy deletion;

(c)

an inversion.

(a) a terminal deletion; (b) an
(Courtesy of Dr. B. McClintock

in Research Bulletin of the University of Missouri Agricultural Experiment
Station.)

what are called relational coils (Fig. 18), and each soon becomes
a double structure.
this is because two

It is

immaterial for our purpose whether

chromatids in very close contact and consti-

tuting one chromosome become so separated now as to be visible
as a double structure or whether one original thread w^as present

which now forms another thread like it and alongside it. It is
often stated that at this time "the chromosomes split longitudinally," but it is more likely either that two intimate chro-

monemata separate or that one thread regenerates another.
After this doubling occurs, the two chromatids of one chro-

Reproduction and Meiosis

56

mosome are still twisted about the two chromatids of the homologous chromosome in relational coiling, but this

complicated by a coiling of the two chromatids of each chromosome
around each other. Thus two threads (chromatids) which are
coiled about each other are coiled relationally about two other
is

further

Fig. 18. One bivalent in stages of the first meiotic division.
Top,
zygotene or early pachytene before the chromosomes have become double.
Center, pachytene with each chromosome consisting of two chromatids.

Bottom, diplotene showing chiasmata.

threads (chromatids) which are coiled about each other.

It

can

be seen from this that the chromosomes are under considerable

Before the chromosomes become double, there

an
attraction of an unknown nature which causes them to remain
paired. Once the chromosomes are doubled this attraction ceases
and is translated into an attraction between the chromatids of
each pair. AVhen the attraction between chromosomes lapses,
one pair of chromatids begins to repel the other pair, increasing
stram.

the strain.

is

The result will be that at one or more places one of

the four threads will break, and

it

will not necessarily be the

same thread that breaks at any two places.

Meiosis

57

When one chromatid breaks at a certain place, one of the
two chromatids of the other chromosome also breaks at exactly
the same place. The broken ends then uncoil. The broken end
of one chromatid in some way seems to come into contact with
the broken end of the other broken chromatid and they fuse.
This fusion largely eliminates relational coiling. If one such
break, followed by a fusion, occurs, one chromatid of each chro-

mosome remains unchanged but the other two chromatids are
new and are composed in part of one original chromatid and in
part of the other.

Since the break is at the same place in each

of the two chromatids, the new chromatids are exactly the same

as the old ones in size and appearance

;

but the new arrangement

of segments of chromatids has a very important effect on the

transmission of groups of genes, resulting in what
genetically as crossing over.

is

known

Since more than one break-and-

fusion usually occurs in a pair of homologous chromosomes, and
since they may involve

any chromatid of either pair at any one

place, the results in terms of the original nature of the four

threads can be quite complicated.

The breaks and exchanges of partners produce cross-shaped
figures in the paired chromosomes when viewed under the microscope.
They are best observed in the next stage of the first
meiotic prophase, diplotene.

During diplotene, the repulsion be-

tween the pairs of chromatids is very strong, and the two pairs

now tend to separate from one another.

They cannot do so

completely, however, because at various places one chromatid

from one chromosome is attached to a piece of one chromatid
from the other chromosome. The parts that are not joined
separate as widely as they can.

If one break had occurred in
pachytene, the two homologous chromosomes would present a
cross-shaped figure, and the length of the arms of the cross would

depend upon the original position of the break. If more than
one break had occurred, the chromosomes would open out into

The regions where they are tied together as the result
of the previous breaks are known as chiasmata.
The two homologous chromosomes which have paired at zygotene are known as a bivalent. When four threads are present as
loops.

the result of the doubling of each chromosome, the configuration
is

known as a tetrad.

The tetrad nature of a bivalent is not

Reproduction and Meiosis

58

so easily observed at pachytene because the threads

lie

close

together, but at diplotene as the result of the repulsion and con-

sequent opening out of the threads, the four-strand nature

is

The diplotene chromatids are long and thin but, as
progresses, they contract greatly and become much

easily seen.

diplotene

due to the coiling or spiralization
At the
of the long, thin threads that were present originally.
same time, they rotate in such a way that in a bivalent with
several chiasmata the successive loops lie at right angles to one
another, whereas if only one chiasma is present, the arms rotate
through 180°. As at mitosis, a matrix which stains very heavily
thicker.

This contraction

is

begins to collect around the threads so that the internal struc-

chromosome is not easily visible late in this stage.
The repulsion which starts with the beginning of diplotene continues and is often strong enough to cause the chromatids to slide
ture of the

along one another so that the chiasmata appear to move towards
the ends.

This terminalization begins towards the end of diplo-

tene and may continue through the next stage and up to meta-

Chiasmata may terminalize completely or only partially.
Terminalization is, in general, greatest in small chromosomes and
phase.

least in large ones, although the degree of terminalization also

seems partly a characteristic of certain species.
The chromosomes pass gradually from diplotene to the

last

At this stage, the bivalents
are very short and thick and are quite deeply stained, and the
two chromatids of each chromosome are close to one another, with
stage of the prophase, diakinesis.

the result that the identity of the individual chromatids is usually
lost

except possibly at the ends

when the chiasmata

are not

During this stage, the spiralization of
the chromatids may continue, causing them to become somewhat
shorter than at the beginning of diakinesis, and terminalization
may also continue if it had not been completed in diplotene. The
completely terminalized.

They move
to the periphery of the nucleus just inside the nuclear membrane
and are frequently arranged so that each is as far away from
bivalents tend to repel each other during diakinesis.

every other one as

it

can

get,

although this last feature seems

than in large nuclei. The nucleolus
disappears during diakinesis, and this stage is terminated by the

more noticeable

in small

disappearance of the nuclear membrane.

Meiosis
First Prometaphase.

59

When the nuclear membrane disappears,

a spindle forms and the bivalents move towards the equator.
The chromosomes are even shorter and thicker than they were

The chromatids are not usually visible under
ordinary methods of staining but can be made to appear by

during prophase.

special techniques.

AVhen the bivalents reach the equator they
arrange themselves on it. They are especially clear in plants
with few chromosomes (Figs. 19 and 20). If the plant has both
large and small chromosomes, the small ones are usually towards
the center (Fig. 21). There are several outstanding differences
between metaphase of the first meiotic division and a metaFirst Metaphase.

phase of a somatic mitosis.

chromosomes are placed
equator.

In the

first

In a somatic division, the metaphase
so that their centromeres

lie

on the

meiotic metaphase, the centromeres could

not lie on the equator unless the bivalent lay on its side.

The

bivalents are oriented so that the centromeres are towards the
poles and the chiasmata in the equatorial plane.

The way any bivalent is oriented is purely a matter of chance.
That is, the centromere of the chromosome which came from the
male parent may point to either pole, and obviously the centromere from the original female parent will point in the direction
of the opposite pole. Not only is any one pair of chromosomes
oriented at random with respect to the poles but each bivalent
is also arranged entirely independently of any other.
First Anaphase.
When the bivalents have become arranged
on the spindle, they begin to pull apart.

This separation

is

apparently the result of a strong repulsion between the opposite
centromeres, wiiich drag the rest of the chromatids after them.

When the chiasmata are terminalized, the chromosomes break
apart easily as the centromeres

move towards the pole; when

nonterminalized, the chiasmata slip along towards the ends until
the chromosomes have pulled apart.
are

still

The two sister chromatids

in contact at the centromere, but the double nature of

each chromosome, often completely obscured at metaphase,

is

now very evident. The anaphase chromosomes are much shorter
and thicker than the anaphase chromosomes in a somatic mitosis
of the same plant and would hardly be recognized as belonging
to the same organism.

Re-production and Meiosis

60

Fig 19

Stages in the development of
first

the pollen grams

anaphase;

(c)

m T'«descanlm

second anaphase

Jludola- (aTfirst metaphase; (6)
early
first postmeiot.c division; («)
r^etanhle ot the microspore or
lueida
Camera
microspore division.
lllpZt and (/) lite anaphaL of the

W

drawings.

Meiosis

61

Reproduction and Meiosis

62
Telophase.

First

After

the

anaphase

chromosomes

have

reached their respective poles, they frequently become very long

and they may largely uncoil as in mitosis.

A new nuclear mem-

brane may form around each group of chromosomes, constituting

Fig. 21,

Metaphase and anaphase of the first meiotic division in two

plants with chromosomes of very different size: (a) metaphase of Gasteria
nigricans; (b) anaphase of Gasteria laetepunctata ; (c) metaphase of Capsella

(Bursa) rubella; (d) anaphase of Capsella grandifiora.

In Gasteria

there are four pairs of very large and three pairs of much smaller chromo-

somes.

In these species of Capsella there are eight pairs of very small

chromosomes,

(a)

and

(b)

X930;

(c)

and

(d)

circa

X2000.

Camera

lucida drawings.

two daughter nuclei, a nucleolus may appear in each nucleus,
and a new cell wall may now form, dividing the original cell
into two. However, sometimes the first telophase is apparently
dispensed with, and the chromosomes may pass unchanged from
the first anaphase into the second prometaphase.
Interkinesis.

After the

first

telophase, the daughter nuclei

sometimes go into a typical resting stage just as they do after

Meiosis

63

This stage between the end of the first telophase and the beginning of the second prophase is known as
interkinesis.
It is usually short, and may be entirely absent.
a somatic mitosis.

Sometimes the chromosomes seem to go into a partial but not
complete resting stage between the first and the second prophase.
Second Prophase. If an interkinesis follows the first telophase
it is in turn followed by the prophase of the second meiotic
division.
In the second prophase the chromosomes appear as
double structures, the result of the ''split" or separation of the
chromatids which took place at pachytene or one whole cell
division previous to their appearance here.

The chromatids of

each chromosome are held together by the centromere, but the
arms repel one another instead of lying in close approximation
as in a somatic mitosis.

This arrangement gives the chromo-

somes a very different appearance from the prophase chromosomes of a somatic mitosis for in the second meiotic division
they are X-shaped figures whereas in a somatic mitosis they are
two parallel threads. In a somatic mitosis there are 2n prophase
chromosomes, but in the second meiotic prophase the chromosomes are present in only the haploid number. During the
second prophase, the nucleoli, if they appeared during the first
telophase, disappear again, and finally the nuclear membranes
disappear.

When the two nuclear membranes
Second Prometaphase.
break down, two new spindles are formed in the position of the
former nuclei, and the chrom.osomes of each nucleus move on
to the equators of their respective spindles.

If a

new cell wall

formed at first telophase, each spindle is in a separate cell, but
if the wall did not form, as is normal in many organisms, both
spindles are in one cell. The two spindles may lie approximately
parallel and alongside one another, as in spermatogenesis in ani-

mals or the formation of the microspore in plants. Then the
four cells which form subsequently are arranged in the form of a
tetrahedron.
In megasporogenesis in plants, however, the
spindles are oriented in the same direction and lie in the same
plane; the resulting four cells are in a linear row.

Second Metaphase. As in somatic mitosis, the chromosomes
are lined up with the centromeres on the equator. The repulsion of the arms found at second prophase is now completely or
partially overcome, and the two chromatids of each chromosome

Reproduction and Meiosis

64
often

lie

close together as in a somatic mitosis, although they

sometimes diverge.
of the first division

Where there is no interphase, the spindle
seems to break up into two spindles just

chromosomes of the first division have reached
the poles, and the two groups of anaphase chromosomes move
immediately on to the equatorial plates of the new spindles and
become the second metaphase chromosomes. They usually elonas the anaphase

gate in the process.

Second Anaphase.

Second anaphase begins when the daughter
centromeres pull apart towards the opposite poles. The chromosomes of second anaphase are not the short, thick bodies of the
meiotic division but are much more like the anaphase
chromosomes of a somatic mitosis.
Second Telophase. When the anaphase chromosomes reach
the poles, new nuclei form in the usual manner. The chromosomes
lengthen and almost completely uncoil, and nuclear membranes
and nucleoli appear. Cell walls usually divide these two cells
into four although occasionally no walls form, as in megasporogenesis of the lily. In organisms in which cell walls do form, if
a wall did not form during the first telophase, the one cell with
four nuclei now becomes divided into four cells.
first

Reduction

an animal has 16 somatic chromosomes, at leptotene there
would be 16 chromosomes and therefore 16 centromeres. After
pairing and ''splitting" of the chromosomes there would be 32
chromatids; but since the centromeres either do not divide or
divide but remain with the daughter centromeres in very intimate
If

contact during the

first

division, only 16 effective centromeres

would still be present. At first anaphase, 8 effective centromeres
and therefore 8 chromosomes would pass to each pole. The fact
that each chromosome was composed of 2 chromatids would not
make it more than one chromosome for, as long as the centromeres are intact or together, the chromosomes behave as a unit
irrespective of the number of chromatids of which they are composed. Therefore, at first anaphase, 8 chromosomes go to each
In the second division, the daughter centromeres separate
so that each chromosome now becomes two separate units. As a
pole.

result of this separation of the centromeres, 8

to each pole at the second anaphase.

chromosomes go

Reduction

65

At the beginning of meiosis the primary spermatocytes and
primary oocytes of the above animal have 16 chromosomes. At
the end of the first division, the secondary spermatocytes and
the secondary oocytes have only

duced

8.

Since the nmiiber

is

re-

half, this division is often referred to as the reduction

division.

The reduction division reduces the number of chromo-

somes and centromeres. In the second meiotic division, the chromatids of each chromosome separate from one another. Because
of the "split'' of the centromeres, there

no further reduction
of the number of centromeres or of chromosomes in each daughter
cell.

It

is

is

not, therefore, a reductional division, but is often

called the equation division because of the equal separation of
sister chromatids to the

daughter nuclei.

Usually the first division is reductional and the second equational for the number of effective centromeres

ber of chromosomes.

and for the 7iumBecause of breaks in the chromatids and

the formation of new combinations of segments of chromatids at

pachytene which result if chiasmata occur at diplotene, reduction
is true only in a quantitative sense and is not true qualitatively
for the whole of all the chromatids.

If there were no

exchanges

of chromatids and no chiasmata (assuming that the chromosomes

were still paired), the entire homologues would separate reductionally in a cjualitative sense at first anaphase and equationally

Normally, however, one or more chiasmata are formed. In a chromosome having one long and one
short arm, let us assume that one chiasma can form in the long
arm but that the other arm is too short for a chiasma. The
result is a chromosome passing to one pole at first anaphase
which is composed of one normal chromatid plus a sister chromatid which is normal for the short arm and the part of the
long arm nearest the centromere (the proximal part) but has a
distal piece of a homologous chromatid.
Similarly, the chromosome passing to the other pole is normal except for the corresponding distal segment. As a result, the first anaphase is reductional for the centromere, short arm, and proximal piece of the
long arm, but is equational for the distal end of the long arm
of one chromatid of each chromosome. Correspondingly, the second division is equational for the short arm and proximal part of
at second anaphase.

the long

arm but reductional for the distal portions.

If

more

than one chiasma is present, the chromatids are more complex.

Reproduction and Meiosis

66

Plant morphologists have frequently called the

meiotic

first

division the heterotypic division, or division different from a

typical mitosis, and the second meiotic division the homeotypic
division,

or

division

like

a

typical

mitosis.

In

number

of

chromosomes involved and in the position of the arms of the
"split" chromosome in prophase, however, this second meiotic
division differs from a somatic division.
Vegetative Reproduction
In higher plants various vegetative methods of reproduction

may be found by which a new plant may arise from a piece of
one of the vegetative organs of another. Such asexual methods
of reproduction may be the only usual methods in some plants,

and in many plants they may be of great importance from an
agricultural viewpoint.
If

plants reproduce

by a vegetative method, whether from

roots, stems, or leaves, all the

new plants will be exactly like

one another and like the parental plant. A group of plants
produced vegetatively from one original plant is called a clone.
All the plants of a given clone are alike.

Hermaphrodites
In many animals and some higher plants, each individual is
either male or female; but in some animals and most higher
plants, both sexes are represented in each individual.

Organisms

in which one individual contains both male and female sex organs

are

known

as

hermaphrodites.

In some hermaphroditic ani-

mals, like Hydra, the sperm of one animal will fertilize the eggs

same animal; but in the earthworm, the eggs must be
When an herfertilized by sperm from a different animal.

of the

maphroditic animal or plant produces a new individual by the
union of egg and sperm from the same parent, such an organism
is

said to be self -fertilized; but when the gametes are from dif-

ferent individuals, such an organism

is

cross-fertilized.

Many

seed plants have elaborate mechanisms to ensure that they will

be cross-fertilized, peas and others are regularly self-fertiUzed,

and

still

others

fertilization.

may produce seeds by either self-

or

cross-

Questions and Problems

67

Parthenogenesis

Eggs normally require fertilization in order to develop into
mature organisms, but the eggs of some plants and animals may
The development of an unferdevelop without fertilization.
tilized egg is known as parthenogenesis.
Although this occurs
normally in the production of certain insects such as male bees
and the parasitic wasp Habrobracon, it can be induced in some
eggs by treating them with certain chemicals or other abnormal
environmental conditions.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Consult books on general zoology and suggest some animals that

have a more complicated life cycle than the vertebrates. What are the
chromosome numbers of the various stages of some of these other life
cycles ?

Diagram the life cycle in Ulothrix, Fucus, Nemahon, Polysiphonia,
black stem rust of wheat, and other lower plants. Consult textbooks on
general botany or on the morphology of the Thallophytes.
3. Discuss the relative importance of the sporophyte and gametophyte in various divisions of the Plant Kingdom.
4. The number of chromosomes in the root tip cells of maize is 20.
What is the number in the following cells or tissues: (a) microsporocyte
2.

(b) tube nucleus;

(c) nucellus;

(d) antipodal cells;

(e) cells of

anther

embryo sac mother cell; (h) megaspore; (i) palisade cells of leaf; (;') endosperm?
5. Assume that a plant has two long and two short chromosomes.
Diagram cells of that plant in (a) metaphase and anaphase of a somatic
mitosis, (6) metaphase and anaphase of the first meiotic division, and
(c) metaphase and anaphase of the second meiotic division.
6. Explain what is meant by relational coiling and relic coiling.
7. What is meant by Darlington's "Precocity Theory"?
8. If several chiasmata form in one arm of a chromosome and if they
all terminahze, why do they all terminalize to the free end of that arm?
Why do not some terminalize to the end of the other arm? Would they
still all terminalize to the end of that arm if no chiasmata formed in the
other arm?
9. Show by a diagram why a chiasma holds two chromosomes together at diplotene. Use colored crayons to differentiate the two homo-

wall;

(/)

style;

(g)

logues or, still better, use colored modeling clay.

Chapter 5

SPECIAL CHROMOSOMES AND SEX

INHERITANCE
Sex and the Sex Chromosome
For most animals and a few plants, there is one outstanding
and regular exception to the statement that all the chromosomes
of a normal, diploid organism are in pairs and that each chromosome has a mate which is an exact duplicate of it in morphology
and in the loci of which it is composed. In all individuals of
Drosophila melanog aster, the second, third, and fourth chromosomes are present in pairs, and the first chromosome, rod-shaped
and of medium length, is paired in the female. In the male,
however, only one of these medium-sized rod-shaped chromosomes is present, and another
chromosome, which is longer,
J-shaped, and absent in a nor-

jk Jk
1-^^

Fig. 22.

^^

Chromosomes

^^

mal female, is also present. It
is customary to refer to the rodshaped chromosome as the X
chromosome and the J-shaped
^^^ ^g ^j^^ y chromosome. At

m\
in

a fe-

and
a
{lejt)
male-determining
Dromale-determining sperm of
,.,
^
,
-PkDiagrammelanogaster.
sophila
matic. (After Bridges in Genetics.)

•

•

meiosis

,

and

X
m the male, the -v
•

,1

a

±^

Y chromosomes separate

sperm carry one X
or one Y in addition to one chromosome from each of the three
Since females have two X chromosomes, all
pairs (Fig. 22).
so that all

X chromosome in addition to one member of
each of the other pairs. The X and Y chromosomes are thereeggs have one

fore differentials in the determination of sex.

When an X-bearing

X

sperm unites with an egg, the resulting individual has two
chromosomes and is a female. Similarly, a male is produced by
and
the union of a Y-bearing sperm and an egg, since it has one
one Y chromosome (Table 1).

X

68

Sex and the Sex Chromosome

69

The chromosome mechanism that explains sex in Drosophila
is

not universal as to details, and yet the fundamentals are the

same in

all

organisms in which the sexes are separate.

type, in which the male has both an

the female

is

This

X and a Y chromosome while

XX, is the more general condition, although the

Y chromosome is not J-shaped in all organisms, nor is

always
chromosome. In human beings, for example,
larger than the
the Y is a very short chromosome and is considerably smaller
than the X. In human beings, 48 somatic chromosomes are
chromosome and 23 others
present; half the sperm have one
it

X

X

TABLE 1
Sets of Autosomes (A) and Sex Chromosomes (X, Y, Z, axd W) in Females
AND Males, in Their Gametes, and in Their Offspring in Diploid
Organisms Having the XY and in Those with the ZW Type of

Sex Chromosomes

Chromosomes and Sex Inheritance

Special

70

half the sperm have neither an

X nor a Y chromosome and are

male-determining.

Autosomes
In

all

organisms the eggs and sperm carry one member of

each of the other pairs of chromosomes in addition to the

Y chromosome.

These other chromosomes are known as the

In Drosophila melanogaster there are 6 autosomes

autosomes.
in the

X or

somatic cells of both the male and female and 3 in each

gamete;

in

man, there are 46 autosomes in each body cell and

23 in each gamete.

Heterogametic Females
In moths, butterflies, birds, and some
regards the sex chromosomes
sophila and man.

gametic sex.

is

fishes,

the situation as

the opposite from that in Dro-

In these organisms, the female is the hetero-

This type is generally referred to as the Abraxas

or bird type, and the sex chromosomes in the female are usually

designated Z and
in these

W whereas the male

is

ZZ.

Inheritance of sex

organisms is shown in Table 1.

The Y Chromosome
Apart from its frequent difference in shape, the Y chromosome
chromosome and from
differs in one marked respect from the
the autosomes. It generally contains at most just a few genes.
Often no genes at all have been discovered in the Y chromosome,

X

and even where genes have been found they are frequently not
alleles of genes in the
chromosome. In the Y chromosome of
Drosophila melanogaster genes that have been discovered are
a gene for long bristles, which is an allele of the gene "bobbed" in
the X chromosome, and two genes for male fertility which appear

X

to have no corresponding allele in the

X chromosome. The pres-

ence of the allele of bobbed indicates that there is one small seg-

ment of the X chromosome which is represented by a homologous
segment in the Y chromosome. The remaining parts of the
X chromosome have no counterpart in the Y chromosome, and
almost all the Y chromosome is completely nonhomologous with
the X chromosome. Apart from the few genes, the Y chromosome
of Drosophila appears to be made up of inert material usually

Meiosis in the Sex Chromosomes

71

called heterochroinatin to distinguish it from the active or euchro-

These two types of chromatin stain somewhat
differently during mitosis. Although most of the Y chromosome is
inert, heterochromatic material is not confined to the Y chromochromosome nearest the censome, for about one-third of the
tromere and small regions of the autosomes on either side of
matic regions.

X

their centromeres appear to be heterochromatic.

As in Drosophila, there is an homologous segment in both the
X and Y chromosomes of human beings, but this segment is
small in comparison with the nonhomologous regions and only
a few genes have been found in it. A number of loci are found
in the X chromosome which are not represented in the Y chromosome, and several genes are known in the part of the Y chromosome not represented in the X chromosome. Some of the characters produced by genes on. the X and Y chromosomes in man
have been mentioned in Chapter 3.
Meiosis in the Sex Chromosomes

The meiotic behavior of the chromosomes in individuals with
two X chromosomes, such as the females of many species, or
with two Z chromosomes, as the males of birds and a few other
animals,

is

exactly like the meiotic behavior of the autosomes.

X chromosomes are homolThus
they pair at zygotene,
ogous throughout
exchange segments, and form chiasmata in exactly the same
This is to be expected since the two
their

way as autosomes.

length.

In the heterogametic sex, however, the be-

havior depends upon the presence or absence of the Y chromo-

some and, if a Y chromosome is present, upon the extent of
homology between it and the X chromosome. In organisms of
the XO type naturally there is no chromosome with which the
X chromosome can pair (Fig. 23). It will usually pass intact
to one or the other pole at the first meiotic anaphase and divide
equationally at the second.

If it does so,

it

goes to the pole

either before or after but never at the same time as the auto-

X

chromosome divides equaSometimes the univalent
tionally at the first division and reductionally at the second. In
either case only two of the four resulting cells contains an
chromosome. In the XY type in most organisms, pairing may
occur between the X and Y chromosomes provided they have a
segment in common, but pairing is always between homologous
somes.

X

Chromosomes and Sex Inheritance

Special

72

Meiosis in a male squash bug, Anasa tristis. The sex chromosomes in the female sex are
and in the male XO. (a) Late prophase
Fig. 23.

XX

of division of primary spermatocyte showing nine bivalents, one unpaired

X chromosome, and two small univalents which have not paired but will
(b) First meiotic

pair as the spindle forms,

metaphase in polar view; the

paired small chromosomes are in the center and the large

X chromosome

toward the outside of the principal ring,
chromosomes separate in advance of the

X chromosome

is

divides equationally at the

first

division

(c) First

anaphase

others;

the

and

is

;

the small

shown separating to the

poles slightly later than the autosomes (which are dividing reductionally)
(d)

First telophase; the

(/)

ring formed

X chromosomes appear to be outside the prin-

by the

others, (e) Second metaphase in polar view.
Second anaphase the X chromosome passes undivided to one pole but
later than the others; the equational splitting at the first division and the
passing reductionally at the second spermatocyte division have been termed
postheterokinesis.
(g) Second telophase; one cell has nine large and one
small autosomes, and the other has nine large and one small autosomes
and one X chromosome. Xl^25. Camera lucida drawing.
cipal

;

Sex Chromosomes in Plants
parts only.

73

If the homologous parts are not too short, chiasmata

are formed, and genes are exchanged between the two chromo-

somes.

Since nonhomologous parts do not

pair,

there

is

no

exchange of segments between them and no chiasmata are formed,
but

the

presence

large

of

nonhomologous regions does
not prevent pairing in ho-

mologous parts.

Sex Chromosomes in Plants

Most seed plants are monoecious

—that

is,

both sexes

on each plant.

are present

There is no sex chromosome

mechanism, and sex is not a
problem of heredity but one
of differentiation during de-

In some species

velopment.

of plants, however, each in-

dividual

male or

either

is

In some of these
plants a sex mechanism has
female.

been discovered like that in
animals.

In Lychnis dioica,

netic grounds that the

male

was

heterogametic.

Defi-

nite

X and Y chromosomes

have been found in Elodea
canadensis,

Melandrium al-

bum (which is partially syn-

(Fig.

Drosophila type.

Abraxas type.

24)

One

;

of

otic division in a diploid

Botany.)

onymous with Lychnis dioica
since it was included in ShulFs L.
other plants

Metaphase

first
meimale plant
of Lychnis (Melandrium).
Eleven
pairs of autosomes are present and
one pair which consists of the X and
Y chromosomes. Photomicrograph
(Courtesy of Dr. H. E.
X1400.
Warmke in the American Journal of

Fig. 24.

G. H. Shull showed from ge-

dioica), hops, poplar,

and

inheritance in these plants

is

of the

seed plant, Fragaria elatior,

is

of the

In species of the dock, Rumex, the male is hetero-

gametic for sex, but has two small Y chromosomes and one large

X.

The two Y chromosomes separate from the X at meiosis, and

a male gamete with

two Y's produces a male on

whereas one with the one X

produces a female.

fertilization

Special

74

Chromosomes and Sex Inheritance

Salivary. Gland Chromosomes

After fertilization in Drosophila, the egg is laid in moist food

and proceeds to hatch out into a small, crawling larva. Inside
the larva, extending back from the mouth a distance of onefourth to one-third the length of the entire body, are two large

Fig. 25.

Chromosomes

melanogaster.

in

a

cell

of the

salivary gland of Drosophila

(Courtesy Dr. B. P. Kaufmann.)

salivary glands.

These glands have cells so large that they can

easily be seen with the low powers of a dissecting microscope.

The nuclei of these cells are much larger than those of ordinary
cells,

being generally about 25

ju,

in diameter,

and the chromo-

somes in the nuclei are so large that they are 50 to 200 times as
large as the

chromosomes

in

the reproductive cells or in the

ordinary body cells of this organism (Fig. 25).

mosomes

Such large chro-

are characteristic of the salivary glands, the rectal

epithelium, and the Malpighian tubules of the entire group, the

Diptera, to which Drosophila belongs.
in 1881

They were first observed

by Balbiani in the related organism, Chironomus.

Their

Striations
possibilities

and Bands

75

as a tool for studying genetics were not realized

and during the end of the last century and the
early part of the present century they were merely regarded as
a puzzling curiosity of no known significance or importance. A
little over fifty years after discovery these large chromosomes
were correctly interpreted by Heitz and Bauer in Bibio hortulanus and by Painter in Drosophila, and since then they have
for a long time,

been studied very intensively.
In addition to being much larger than ordinary chromosomes,
the chromosomes in the salivary gland nuclei are atypical in
several

other

respects.

Although the nuclei

in

which these

chromosomes are found are not dividing and will not divide
again, the chromosomes are not in a typical resting stage but
appear to be in a permanent prophase stage with the two homologues of each pair of chromosomes closely paired throughout
their length.
The pairing of homologous somatic chromosomes
is certainly not general but is common in the Diptera, where it
occurs in other somatic cells as well as in salivary gland cells.

The salivary gland chromosomes are therefore mitotic prophase
chromosomes which have uncoiled and lost the "relic coils" of the
previous division and which show a marked somatic pairing.
Striations and

Bands

Ordinary somatic chromosomes consist of one or two thin

chromonemata or gene strings, but the number of chromonemata
in these giant chromosomes is considerably greater. In typical
somatic chromosomes, the division of the chromonemata is
shortly followed by the division of the chromosome itself, so that
the number of chromonemata in a chromosome is never large.
In the salivary gland chromosomes of the Diptera, the chromonemata divide a number of times, but these divisions are not
accompanied by division of the chromosome as a whole. The
result is that a number of these fine threads will be embedded
in a common matrix.
The number varies with different members of the group.
in

other

members

In Drosophila it appears to be about 64, but
of

number is larger. In
These chromonemata are completely

the Diptera the

Chironomus it is about 400.
uncoiled and lie parallel and close to one another throughout
the length of the chromosome.
They are not uniformly thin,

Special

76

Chromosomes and Sex Inheritance

but contain a large number of deeply staining chromomeres,
some large, some small, arranged so that the threads appear like
strings of loosely strung beads of different sizes.

Since

all

the

chromonemata within a common matrix arose from one original
chromonema by successive divisions, they should be alike.
Apparently they are, for the chromomeres on one chromonema
are identical in size and position with the chromomeres on the
sister chromonemata. All the chromonemata have a chromomere
at exactly the same place on the thread. Since the chromonemata
are very close to one another, the chromosomes are in contact
An aggregation of identical chromomeres on the
laterally.
numerous chromonemata appears as a cross-band or disc at
right angles to the long axis of the chromosome.
One of the
outstanding features of these giant chromosomes is the presence
of these numerous cross-bands which differ in thickness and in
staining capacity and are at various distances apart.
Their
properties depend upon the size and nature of the chromomeres
of

which they are composed.

One other feature of the bands is of great genetic significance.
In size, position, and sequence the bands in one chromosome are
homologous chromosome. Therefore,
when the two homologues are paired, as they always are in the
identical with those in the

salivary glands, the bands of one must lie exactly alongside the

corresponding bands of the other.

This is strictly true.

Pairing

homologous salivary gland chromosomes is very precise,
This is so
just as it is in zygotene of meiotic chromosomes.
universal a rule, that if a piece of one of the paired homologues
involving several bands is deleted by X-rays, the bands of the
other homologue corresponding to those deleted have no bands
of two

with which to pair and form a loop to one

side.

The missing

bands in no way alter the pairing of the bands which are present in both homologues. One of the valuable features of these
giant chromosomes is the evidence they give of the nature of

chromosome pairing.

Bands and Genes

The bands appear to contain a large amount of nucleic acid,
whereas the nonstaining or lightly staining regions between the

The Chromocenter

77

bands appear not to contain so much nucleic acid. The many
chromonemata that make up the salivary gland chromosome are
composed of bundles of fibers of complex organic chemical subPart of these bundles of polystances known as polypeptids.
nucleic
acid,
and the remaining parts do not.
peptid fibers attract
The parts that contain the nucleic acid stain deeply and form
the chromomeres. The fusion of such adjacent deeply staining
If all the chromomeres do not fuse
regions produces a band.

band appears as broken. The exact relation between the bands and genes cannot easily be determined. By
means of X-rays, certain flies can be produced which have a
marked notch in the wing. When the salivary glands of larvae
laterally, the

from such flies are examined, one of the bands is usually seen
to be missing from one of the chromosomes, although not from
The many examples of such notch-winged flies
its homologue.
that have been found point to the conclusion that every locus
corresponds to at least one band. The bands are therefore in
some way correlated to genes although it cannot be said
definitely that a

band is a gene.

The Chromocenter
Salivary gland chromosomes exhibit one peculiarity not found
in other chromosomes.
is

It has been shown that the

Y chromosome

made up largely of heterochromatin and that the X chromo-

somes and autosomes have heterochromatic material around
their centromeres although they consist mostly of euchromatin.
This condition has little effect upon their behavior in meiotic or
in ordinary somatic cells, but in the cells of the salivary gland
of Drosophila

it

has a striking

effect.

In these

cells,

all

the

heterochromatic material of all the chromosomes is fused into a
mass from which the euchromatic material extends like tentacles.

The entire chromatic material appears like an octopus, with a
heterochromatic body and five long and one short euchromatic
arms. The long arms are the right arm and left arm of both
the V-shaped second and third chromosomes and the rod-shaped
chromosome, and the very small fourth chromosome makes

X

up the

sixth

projection.

In the female,

all

six

arms are

of

uniform thickness for each consists of two paired homologues.
chromosome, since it is an unpaired structure,
In the male, the

X

Special

78
is

Chromosomes and Sex Inheritance

noticeably thinner than the corresponding chromosome of the

female and

is

thinner than the autosomes of both sexes.

The

Y chromosome of the male forms part of the chromocenter.
The chromocenter is not a characteristic of dipteran salivary
gland nuclei, although it is a prominent and characteristic feature of Drosophila. In forms like Chironomus and Sciara there

no such union of heterochromatic material, and the chromosomes are independent units in the same number as in typical
is

somatic

cells.

"Lampbrush" Chromosomes
Another unusual type of chromosome has recently received
considerable attention. In some animals, including amphibians
and birds, during the maturation of the egg, the chromosomes of
the first meiotic prophase may increase greatly in length. This
increase occurs in those forms whose developing eggs remain in
the prophase for a considerable time. The homologous chromatids

pair normally,

but their chromonemata then proceed to

become extended by uncoiling As this continues, outgrowths
which are very fine threads appear from the sides of the chromonemata. They grow out approximately perpendicular to the
chromonemata and then bend around into loops. These loops
always appear in a certain order on the main thread, being of a
characteristic number and a characteristic distance apart from
one another.

It

has been suggested that they give forth sub-

stances into the cytoplasm which exert an action in directing

the development of the egg, but they need

more study

for a

completely satisfactory explanation of their behavior.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Show by diagrams how the X chromosome and the Y chromosome
would pair at meiosis if the
chromosome were rod-shaped and the
Y chromosome were J-shaped if: (a) the long arm of the Y chromosome
were completely homologous with the X chromosome; (6) the proximal
part of the long arm of the Y chromosome were homologous with an
interstitial segment of the X chromosome; (c) there were no homologous
parts in the
and Y chromosomes.

X

X

2.

Discuss the possibihties (a) that maleness

presence of a

Y chromosome and (6) that sex

animal by either one or two

X chromosomes.

is

is

determined by the

determined in a diploid

Questions and Problems

79

3. Does the presence of two X's or of an X and a Y have any effect
on the somatic divisions of an organism ? If so, what is the effect ?
4. By a series of diagrams show how the formation of many new
chromonemata within a common matrix could produce banded structures
such as are found in sahvary gland chromosomes.
5. What is the significance, if any, of the chromocenter?
Is it an

essential feature of salivarv gland nuclei?

Chapter 6

THE GENETIC DISTRIBUTION OF A PAIR OF
ALLELES LOCATED IN AUTOSOMES
may be homozygous
for a dominant or for a recessive gene or that they may be heterozygous. For example, an evening primrose plant may be homoIt has been shown that plants and animals

zygous for the recessive gene, bullata, and have short, crinkled
leaves, or

it

may contain the dominant allele, in which case it

have noncrinkled, or normal, leaves. In the four-o'clock,
plants which are homozygous for the gene for red will have the
character, red flowers, and those homozygous for white, the allele
of red, will have the character, white flowers. As these genes do
not exhibit dominance, the character shown by the heterozygote
is pink flowers.
Obviously, it is the gene and not the character
that is transmitted from generation to generation since germ
cells do not have such structures as leaves and flowers.
The
method by which the genes are distributed is one of the most
important and best-understood problems of the science of
will

genetics.

Since the genes are located in the chromosomes, the problem of
the distribution of genes is inseparable from the problem of the
distribution of the chromosomes.

somes

in the

The behavior of the chromo-

formation of spores, gametophytes, gametes, and

zygotes has already been pointed out.

The next step is to study

the behavior of a pair of chromosomes which contain a certain

known pair of alleles.

In the second chromosome of Drosophila

melanogaster the locus of c, the gene for curved wings, is found

about three-fifths of the distance (genetically) from the end of
one arm. The other five hundred odd genes in this species can be
ignored for the present and observation can be limited to gene c

and its allele, C.
allelic

In cooperation with a large number of non-

wild-type genes,

C produces normal wings.

When only

one pair of genes is under consideration, the situation is simple.
Organisms which are heterozygous for only one pair of alleles or
80

Monohybrids

81

organisms in which only one pair of alleles is being studied are
called monohybrids.

Some interesting characters in maize de-

termined by single genes are shown in Fig. 26, and a striking
structural character in Shepherd's-purse in Fig. 27.

Some interesting inherited types in Zea mays. Left to right,
pop, flint, sweet, pod, and dent. The sweet and floury types appear to
Fig. 26.

differ from flint by single recessive genes, and the pod type by a dominant,
but popcorn and dent probably differ by a number of interacting genes.
(Photograph by Dr. W. Brooks Hamilton.)

homozygous for curved wings, it will have two c
genes, one in each homologue. Since the two homologues separate
at meiosis the two c genes must separate, or segregate, also. Since
each gamete has only one member of chromosome II, it can have
only one c gene; and since the fly is homozygous, all its gametes
must be alike. Similarly, in flies homozvgous for the dominant
allele, all the gametes must have gene C and must have only one
If a fly is

Monohybrids

82

such gene, for meiosis operates in the same manner in a dominant as in a recessive. In the heterozygote, one chromosome bears

C and the homologous chromosome bears c.

Since these chromo-

somes separate during meiosis and enter different gametes, every
gamete must have C or c, but never both. Theoretically, exactly
half the gametes of the heterozygote would have C and exactly
half would have c. The two genes at a given locus segregate jrom

Fig. 27.

A single gene difference in Shepherd's-piirse

:

left,

a rosette of

Capsella (Bursa) grandiflora and, right, a rosette if C. Viguieri of the same
The latter type possesses a dominant gene which produces a heavy
age.
fasciation of the stem.

one another at meiosis; as a result, only one member of the pair
of alleles is present in each gamete.

This separation of the two

genes at any locus is the principle involved in MendeVs first law,
often called the law of segregation.
in the

The behavior of the genes

formation of gametes and plant spores is merely a func-

tion of the behavior of the chromosomes.

The genetic constitution of an organism is the result of the
particular gametes which happen to unite when that individual is
formed. For example, if an egg bearing C is fertilized by a sperm
which has the C gene, a homozygous normal-winged fly is produced.

If both the

egg and sperm happen to contain the gene c,

the resulting individual will have curved wings.

If the egg is

C

and the sperm c, or if the egg is c and the sperm C, the new fly
will be genotypically heterozygous and phenotypically wild type.

Monohybrids

83

can be seen, therefore, that all the offspring of a homozygous
dominant will be phenotypically dominant irrespective of the
genetic constitution of the other parent, since all the gametes of

It

homozygous dominant would contain the dominant gene.
If a homozygous wild type is crossed with a curved, all the
offspring will be heterozygous and will look like the dominant

the

The generation of the parents is called the parental, or
Pi, generation; the generation of the offspring is known as the

parent.

first filial,

the Fi

or Fi, generation (pronounced "eff one").

flies

Since

are alike genotypically, all will produce the

kinds of gametes.

Since

all

are

all

same

heterozygous, one half the

gametes of each fly will be C and the other half will be c.

If two

Fi flies are mated together, the grandchildren of the original two
parents will be produced. This generation is known as the second
filial,

or F2, generation.

One half the eggs of the Fi fly which is

used as a female will contain C and one half will contain c.
larly,

the male Fi fly wdll produce

Simi-

C and c sperm in equal

numbers.

Whether a C-bearing sperm unites with a C or with a c egg
is

a matter of pure chance as the probabilities are theoretically

even.

The same is true for the sperm which bear c.

The chance

that a C egg will be fertilized by a C or by a c sperm is exactly
even, and the same is true for a c egg. Therefore, four combinations are possible in the

F2 and will

exist in equal

numbers:

CC, Cc, cC, and cc. Since Cc and cC flies are alike genotypically,
Ice.
the nature of the F2 can be written as a ratio of ICC 2Cc
In terms of fractions, the F2 population will be y4:CC
Y2CC
however,
are
genotypic.
homozyThese ratios,
As both
y4cc.
gous C and heterozygous flies are phenotypically alike, the phenotypic F2 ratio is 3 normal-winged
1 curved or % normal and %
curved. This is shown diagrammatically in Fig. 28, in which the
method of arriving at the F2 is determined by the conventional
"checkerboard." It must be understood that if only four flies
are produced, three of them will not necessarily be normal and
one curved.
This ratio is theoretical, based on chance, and
means that out of a large number of cases, approximately threequarters will be normal and approximately one-quarter will be
curved. The larger the number of F2 flies, the more nearly the
numbers obtained may be expected to approximate the theoretical
:

:

:

:

ratio.

:

Monohybrids

84
P,

flies

Pi

gametes

F,

flies

Homozygous Wild Type

Curved

CC

cc

/\
© ©.

© ©

/\

Heterozygous

Cc

/\

Fi

gametes

© ©

F,

flies

Fi sperm
c

F.

Eggs

C
c

C
CC

Testcross

85

The phenotypic ratio when the Fi is backcrossed to the
is 1 wild type
1 curved.
The 1 1 ratio will
be obtained whenever any heterozygote is crossed with a homozygous recessive. ''Backcross" is literally appropriate only when
an Fi animal or plant is crossed with one of its own parents. At
other times ^'testcross" is more appropriate, although the terms
c gene.

recessive parent

:

:

are frequently used indiscriminately.

Testcross

'

The cross of a heterozygote with a recessive will give a 1

:

1

between a homozygous dominant and a
recessive will produce only dominants. Use can be made of these
facts to test whether a dominant plant of unknown ancestry is
ratio whereas a cross

homozygous or heterozygous. In certain varieties of lupines,
red flowers are dominant over white. If a commercial seed house
wishes to market seeds of a red variety of lupine, claiming that
only red-flowered plants will be produced, and if they have a
number of red-flowered plants from which to obtain their seeds,
they must know the genotypes of the plants before they can
market seeds from them with a guarantee that all will yield
plants with red flowers.
are

homozygous,

If the red-flowered plants used for seed

the seed

all

flowered plants; but

if

from them

will

produce red-

some are heterozygous, one-fourth

of

the seed from those plants will produce plants with white flowers.
If the company guarantees the seeds to produce only red-flowered

must know which of the plants are heterozygous and
which will breed true for red flowers. One of the most widely
used methods of testing them is to cross them with recessive,
plants,

it

white-flowered plants.

Those plants which produce only red-

flowered offspring, when mated with recessives, are the homozy-

and are used

produce the red-flowered seed for the
market. Those, on the other hand, that give approximately equal
numbers of red- and white-flowered plants when crossed with
gotes

to

the recessive are heterozygotes and worthless for this particular

purpose.

A cross of a dominant of unknown genotype with the

recessive

is

a widely used method of determining the genotype

of phenotypically

dominant plants and animals.

Practical Considerations in Using the Testcross.

that the method of the testcross

is not the

It is

obvious

only way of determin-

ing whether a plant is homozygous or heterozygous.

Self-fertiliz-

86

Monohybrids

ing a plant and raising the offspring would accomplish the same
result.

To be certain of including a sufficient number of reces-

sives to establish the nature of the unknown within the realm of

probability, however, the seedsman would have to

grow a much
larger number of plants from a selfing than from a testcross.
The use of seed from a self-pollination would require more land
than seed from a testcross, and that land might be used more
profitably for another purpose; it also would require more labor
to pot and set out the additional plants required by this method.
Usually, therefore, the testcross method is more practical from
an economic viewpoint. However, the best method to use is also
determined in part by the nature of the plant under consideration.
Each flower of wheat produces one seed. This plant is
self-fertihzed with no difficulty, but the labor involved in making
over a hundred hand pollinations is a great item of expense. For
wheat, the expense of making the crosses might outweigh that of
the additional land and labor necessary for a test by self-fertiliza-

and might make testcrossing impractical. The situation
would be different for a plant like tobacco where one hand pollination would produce several hundred seeds; for it the testcross method would be more desirable.
Species of animals in which the individuals are of one sex only
are tested by the testcross method as it is obviously impossible
to self-fertilize them.
It would be possible to test an unknown
dominant animal by crossing with a known heterozygote, but
such a method would be no simpler than to cross with a recessive
and would require a greater number of offspring so as to be sure
tion

to include a reasonable

number of recessives.

Incomplete Dominance

When a homozygous dominant is crossed with a homozygous
recessive, the Fi

is

phenotypically like the dominant parent and

the F2 splits into three dominants to one recessive if dominance
complete.
When dominance is incomplete, however, the Fi
does not resemble either parent and the phenotypic ratio in the

is

F2 is identical with the genotypic ratio.
red-flowered plant,

In the four-o'clock, a

WW, crossed with a white-flowered plant,

WW, would give a pink-flowered Fi, Ww; this, when selfed, would
show a segregation in the F2 into 1 red (WW) 2 pink (Ww) 1
:

white (ww).

:

Incomplete Dominance

87

Another striking case of incomplete dominance is the oftencited blue Andalusian fowl.
This variety is a heterozygote and
can be produced only by crossing a black with a white. There
is no dominance, and the Fi from such a cross is neither black
nor white but a peculiar intermediate shade called "blue" (Fig.

Fig. 29.

A blue Andalusian female.

This t3^pe is the heterozygote from

a cross between certain black and white types.
true

Therefore it never breeds

when crossed with a blue Andalusian male, but produces a ratio of

black

2 blue
1 white.
In the female the neck feathers are dark
In the male the back and saddle feathers, in addition to the neck
feathers, are almost a solid blue.
(Courtesy of Dr. M. A. Jull.)
1

:

:

blue.

29).

Since the blue fowls are always heterozygotes, they cannot

When two blue fowls are mated,
the offspring are in the ratio of 1 black 2 blue
1 white.
When
possibly be made to breed true.

:

:

a blue is mated with a white the offspring are 1 blue

:

1 white,

and when a blue and a black are crossed the resulting ratio is 1
black

An

:

1 blue.

dominance relationship is found in certain
crosses between horned and hornless sheep.
In Dorset Horn
sheep, the males have very large horns and the horns of the
interesting

Monohybrids

88

Dorset sheep are crossed with a hornless breed such as the Suffolk, the Fi females are hornless, but
females are smaller.

If

the males have horns, although these horns are considerably

smaller than those in the pure Dorset Horn breed.

Dominance

of hornlessness is complete in the females and incomplete in the

males.

Reversal of Dominance
If dominance

is

complete, the dominant character occasionally

may develop more slowly in the heterozygote, in which there is
only one dominant gene, than in the homozygote, in which two
dominant genes are present. Shepherd's-purse, Capsella bursa-

good example of this. A gene, A, produces sharp
If a
leaf lobes, whereas its allele, a, produces rounded lobes.
plant homozygous for A is crossed with a recessive, the Fi

pastoris, is a

plants resemble the recessives when young, but their leaf lobes

gradually elongate and become pointed as they mature.

In the

mature condition the heterozygous Fi plants are unmistakably
In the F2 when young plants
like the homozygous dominants.
are examined, the ratio appears to be 1 pointed lobe 3 round
:

lobes, but in the adult condition the ratio changes to 3 pointed

:

1

round, as the dominant gene in the heterozygote comes into

The gene which produces the elongation of the lobes
acts more slowly when present in only half quantity, but the
mature heterozygotes are indistinguishable from the homozygous

expression.

dominants.
Reciprocal Crosses
It is conventional in writing crosses (except in human genetics)

and the male second. The cross, wild
means
that
a normal-winged female is mated
X
with a curved-winged male, and curved X wild type means that
a female with curved wings is mated with a normal-winged or
wild-type male. The cross curved X wild type is known techto write the female first

type

curved,

nically as the reciprocal of the cross wild type

X curved.

For

genes on autosomes the results are generally the same no matter

which direction the cross is made. The Fo of the cross
curved X homozygous wild type segregates into 3 wild type and
1 curved just as did its reciprocal.
In testcrosses, also, the
results are the same no matter in which direction the cross is
in

Distribution of Genes in Human Beings

made when

dealing with genes in autosomes.

89

Thus the

spring of the Fi and the curved parent are 1 wild type

:

1

off-

curved

no matter whether the Fi or the curved fly is used as the female.
Distribution of Genes in Human Beings

In Chapter 3 a number of genes were mentioned which are
known to produce certain inherited characters in human beings.

These genes act on the developing organism in apparently the
same manner as genes in other animals and in plants. They are
also

repeated in succeeding generations in exactly the same

way as genes in other organisms.

Since, however, human families

are normally smaller than most other animal families, and since
large numbers of offspring are never produced comparable to
families of plants, it is not always so easy to determine the

mode of inheritance of genes in human beings.

An interesting example of the transmission of a human trait
A man who was born with crooked
is shown in Fig. 35a, page 102.
From this
little fingers married a woman with normal fingers.
were produced. Since four had crooked
fingers and two did not, it appears very probable that this trait

marriage

six children

was inherited.

From this information we can infer either that

crooked fingers are the result of a dominant gene and that the
male parent is heterozygous or of a recessive and that the mother
Either way, a family in which four had crooked
is heterozygous.
fingers and two had normal ones could be produced. One daughter with crooked little fingers married a normal man and produced two children with crooked little fingers. A son with the
trait married a normal woman and produced two normal children.
Another daughter with the character married a normal man and
had one normal daughter and one with crooked little fingers,
and the other affected child of the original mating had three
daughters, all of whom had crooked little fingers.
If we assume that crooked little fingers are produced by a
dominant gene, all the Fi individuals with crooked little fingers
would be heterozygous. Therefore, when four of them married
normal recessive individuals, each family should have affected
and normal people in equal numbers. Since, however, all families
had only two or three children, it is quite within the limits of
probability for all the children of any one family to be either
affected or normal.

None of the four families disagrees with

Monohybrids

90

the theory that the gene producing minor streblomicrodactyly
is

a dominant gene.
If

a recessive

gene caused minor streblomicrodactyly, the

normal individuals who produced some offspring with crooked
fingers were heterozygous for this recessive gene. Although
this is possible, it is improbable that at least three out of four
normal people apparently selected at random would have the
little

gene for crooked little fingers in a heterozygous condition, for if

were true, we should expect to find many more people with
crooked little fingers. If we add to these a fourth individual
who also produced a child with minor streblomicrodactyly, the

this

theory of a recessive gene as the causative agent becomes even

more improbable.

It is

much more probable that a dominant

gene is involved (although it is also explainable on an assumption of low penetrance).

In dealing with such problems we must

Then, of the
possible explanations, we should select the most probable at least
as a tentative hypothesis, realizing, of course, that high probfirst

rule out all explanations that are impossible.

abihty is not the equivalent of certainty.
Inheritance of Multiple Alleles in Autosomes

was shown in Chapter 2 that more than one allele may
be present at the same locus of several homologous chromosomes
although, of course, there is only one in each chromosome and
therefore there would be only two in any one diploid individual.
In sheep, three such alleles have been found and are designated
H, H' and h. In the female, gene H is dominant to the other
two, and gene H' is recessive to H and dominant to h. In the
males, incomplete dominance is found and leads to more compliIt

,

cated results.

Such breeds as the Shropshire, Southdown, Cotswold, and Suffolk are hornless in both sexes, and, in the place of horns, small

These strains have
been bred for a long time and are homozygous for H. Gene H' is
found in the Dorset Horn breed from Dorsetshire. In this breed
the male has very large horns and the female also has horns,
although hers are smaller than the male's. Purebred strains of
The Merino group, including
this type are homozygous for H'
the Rambouillet, is the recessive; the males have smaller horns
than the males of the Dorset Horn breed and the females are
depressions are found in the skull (Fig. 30).

.

Inheritance of Multiple Alleles in Autosomes

91

Fig. 30.

T3'pes of horns in sheep,
(a) Merino rams showing typical
horns of the Merino-Rambouillet type,
(b) A Rambouillet ram homo(c) A "horned" Rambouillet ewe with wool clipped to
show the knobs which sometimes break through the skin to form scurs.
(d) Hornless ewe with depressions instead of knobs or scurs. (e) A Dorset
ram. (/)
A Dorset ewe. Genotypes are: (a), hh; (b), HH; (c), hh;
id), HH or Hh; (e) and (/), H'H'.
(Figures (a) through (d) courtesy of
Dr. B. L. Warwick; (e) and (/) from J. F. Abernathy, Chicago. From
Warwick and Dunkle in the Journal of Heredity.)

zj^goiis for hornless,

Monohybrids

92

The hh females can be differentiated from the H
females by the small growths, or scurs, and not depressions,
which they have in place of horns. Hornless (HH) crossed with
hornless.

Dorset horns [H'H') gives only hornless females {HH'), and
hornless by Merino {hh) gives only hornless females {Hh).
When Dorset is crossed with Merino, the females are horned
like the Dorset parent and are heterozygous {H'h) (Fig. 31).

Other examples of multiple
Any hornless
x

breed

alleles are

found in later chapters.

Dorset
horns

Any hornless

H'H'

HH

HH

X

breed

Merino

hh

HH'

Hh

Females hornless
and heterozygous

Females hornless
and heterozygous

Dorset horns

Merino

Heterozygous
HH' female

H'H'

hh

HH

hh

H'h

Hh

Females Dorset
and heterozygous

Females

H'h
Females

hornless

Dorset

x

Merino

Fig. 31. Diagram of the inheritance of horns in sheep (females only).
The hornless type results from the dominant gene H, Dorset horns from

H', and

Merino horns from

h.

These three genes form a series of mul-

tiple alleles.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

In Phlox Drummondii, salver-shaped corolla

funnel-shaped.

If a plant

is

with funnel-shaped flowers

dominant over

crossed with
one homozygous for the genes for salver-shaped flowers, what are the
genotypes and phenotypes of the Fi and F2? What are the phenotypes
is

and genotypes of the offspring of a cross between the Fi and the salvershaped parent and of that between the Fi and the funnel-shaped parent ?
What would be the nature of the offspring (F3 generation) of each F2
plant ?
2.

Looking over a field of F2 plants it would occur to you that some
with salver-shaped flowers were homozygous and some were

of those

heterozygous.

How could you tell which was which (a) by inspection
Might it ever be important to know? Why?

and (6) by breeding?

3. In rabbits, long hair {I) is recessive to short (L).
If a homozygous short-haired female is mated with a long-haired male, what are the

phenotype and genotype of the Fi and of the F2 and of the backcross

Questions and Problems

93

of the Fi with the male and with the female parents?

These genes are

in autosomes.

In hmiian beings, albinos are homozygous for the recessive gene,

4.

c, the allele of normal.
A normal man marries an albino woman. They
have one child, who is an albino. From this one child, can we tell
whether the father was homozygous or heterozygous? If the one child

was normal, what would we know of the father?
5. In Drosophila melanog aster, vestigial wing is recessive to normal.

A geneticist has three wild-type flies. He crossed fly A with fly B and
got 112 wild-type offspring; fly A crossed with fly C gave 83 wild-type
and 30 vestigial; fly B crossed with fly C produced 79 wild-type flies.
What would be the expected phenotypic and genotypic ratios when each
of these flies was crossed with a vestigial ?
In phlox, the gene for entire petals is incompletely dominant to its

6.

allele

which produces incised, or cmpidata, petals.

The heterozygote is

What are the ofl"spring from the following crosses: fimbriata X entire; fimbriata X fimbriata; entire X cus-

intermediate and is called fimbriata.
pidata

;

cuspidata X fimbriata

7. If all

duced?
lusians

lished?

;

entire

X entire

;

cuspidata X cuspidata ?

the blue Andalusian fowls died out, could new ones be pro-

How?

If aU black and white fowls were killed,

but blue Andawere not, could new black and new white ones become estab-

How?

human beings is dominant over normal
It may sometimes be cured by an
operation. A normal woman marries a man homozygous for the gene
for cataract. They have two children, A and B. The man then has an
8.

Congenital cataract in

(absence of congenital cataract).

operation and the cataracts are successfully removed. After that they
have two more children, C and D. What would be the expected pheno-

types of A, B, C, and D?
9.

B. J. Chumlea has reported a pedigree of otosclerosis, a form of

deafness due to abnormal bone growth, in

human beings.

From this

pedigree, which includes four generations, would you consider the trait

as due to a dominant or to a recessive gene?

50
O

^

cMD D D

D D

6

•tO 4 4

nan

o
D D n

Din

D o n 6 6

Monohybrids

94

Edmonds and Keeler report the inheritance of "pierced ears" in a
family from a small village in Italy. What does this family indicate as
to the mode of inheritance of this trait and the degree of penetrance of
10.

the gene responsible?

TK

cTT]

In the following family reported by S. E. Stoddard, the solid black
symbols indicate individuals in whom the Httle fingers of both hands are
11.

flexed while the half-black symbols indicate persons with a flexed little
finger on the right hand.

What is indicated as to the dominance, pene-

trance, and expressivity of the gene?

4~ii-rO

OriiioT^iiiiDri
61]
6^
cTli
persons with unusual traits that might be inherited, learn if you can, whether other members in the family (includ12. If you know of any

ing those no longer hving)

show this trait.

determine the mode of inheritance.

If

the data are sufficient,

r-

Chapter 7

THE GENETIC DISTRIBUTION OF GENES IN
THE X AND Y CHROMOSOMES
was pointed out in Chapter 5 that there are genes on the
X chromosome and rarely on the Y chromosome. Because only
one of a pair is present in one sex and because the phenotypes
It

can be correlated with sex, the inheritance of genes on the
sex chromosomes can be considered a special problem.
The inheritance of genes on the sex chromosomes may be
considered under three headings: (1) genes on a region of the
chromosome which has no counterpart in the Y chromosomes;
(2) genes on a section of the Y chromosome which is not homolo-

X

gous with any section of the

X chromosome; and (3) genes

located in a chromosomal segment which is homologous in both
the

X and Y chromosomes.

as "sex linkage."

The first type has long been known

A great many sex-linked genes have been

The second type may be
called 'Y chromosome inheritance." Only a few genes are known
The third type, "incomplete
in the Y chromosomes of animals.
sex linkage," is not common.
found in animals and a few in plants.

Sex Linkage

XY and XO Type.
as A

As shown in Chapter 6, two alleles such

and a which are located in a pair of autosomes segregate

during gametogenesis or sporogenesis so that half the gametes
contain A and the other gametes a.

chromosome

of

an

A pair of alleles in the X

XX female behaves in exactly the same

manner. If this female is heterozygous for A and a, half the eggs
produced will have A and the other half will have a. In the
chromosome and therefore
male, however, there is only one
only one gene of the pair, for even in XY males there is no locus

X

in the

Y chromosome corresponding to the locus of a sex-linked

gene.

If the male has a dominant gene. A, half the gametes will

have one

X chromosome with the A gene and the other half of
95

Genes in the

96

X and Y Chromosomes

sperm will have neither an A nor an a gene. Similarly,
recessive males will produce two kinds of gametes in equal
numbers; one kind will have an
chromosome with the a gene
and the other kind will have no X chromosome and neither an
A nor an a gene.
In some individuals of Drosophila melanogaster a recessive
the

X

gene that produces miniature wings may be found in the

mosome.

X chro-

The dominant allele of this gene acts to produce wild-

type wings.

A homozygous wild-type female will have two X

chromosomes, each of which will bear one wild-type allele of
miniature. A miniature-winged male will have one
chromosome with the miniature gene and a Y chromosome which has
neither allele. If these two flies are mated together, all the Fi

X

The females will be heterozygous
since they received an X chromosome with a wild-type gene from
their female parent and an X chromosome with a miniature
gene from the male parent. The Fi males, however, will have
only one X chromosome; since it came from the female parent,
offspring will be wild type.

it

will

have the wild-type gene.

The Fi females will produce two kinds of gametes. One half
will have an X chromosome with the wild-type gene and the
other half will have an X chromosome with the miniature gene.
The Fi males will also produce two kinds of gametes in equal
numbers. One half will have an X chromosome with a wild-type
gene and the other half will have a Y chromosome.

Fi

flies

If the

two

are mated together, four different genotypes will result in

the F2, and they will be found in equal numbers.

One half the

females will have two wild-type genes, one from the Fi female

and one from the Fi male. The other half will have a wild-type
gene from the Fi male and a miniature gene from the Fi female.
All the males will naturally have an

Fi female and a

female

X chromosome from the

Y chromosome from the Fi male.

Since the

heterozygous for miniature, half the males will have
a wild-type gene and half will have a gene for miniature. Phenois

typically, all the Fo females will be wild type

and of the males

half will be wild type and half miniature (Fig. 32).

When genes are in autosomes reciprocal crosses normally give
identical results, but

when genes located in the X chromosome

are dealt with, the results of reciprocal crosses are different.

Sex Linkage

When a miniature-winged
male

female

is

97

mated with

a

wild-type

(in contrast to the reciprocal cross just described)

all

the

females in the Fi are wild type but all the males are miniature.

The males receive an X chromosome from their mother but it
Wild-Type Female

Parents

Miniature Male

X X
Pi

gametes

Wild -T>^pe Females Wild Type Males

F,

XX
Fi

gametes

/^

M-

X Y

X
]

M -M
XX

XX

X Y

X Y

Wild-Type
Wild-Type Wild-Type Miniature
Female
Female
Male
Male
Homozygous Heterozygous
Fig. 32. Diagram of sex-linked inheritance in a cross between a homozygous wild-type female and a miniature-winged male of Drosophila melanogaster.

The Fi consists of wild-type females and males, and the F2 falls

into a ratio of 2 wild-type females

:

1

wild-type male

:

1

miniature-winged

male.

has a gene for miniature, and they receive merely a Y chromo-

As Fig. 33 shows, the Fo consists of
wild-type females, miniature females, wild-type males, and
some from their father.

miniature males in equal proportions.
of this cross

is

Neither the Fi nor the F2

the same as the corresponding generation from

the reciprocal cross.

Because a recessive female crossed with a dominant male produces dominant females and recessive males this method of
inheritance is often referred to as "crisscross inheritance." This

Genes in the

98

X and Y Chromosomes

term is descriptive but it is unnecessary and in a sense might
be considered misleading. The only fundamental difference be-

and other crosses is that the Y chromosome lacks
the locus under consideration, for genes which are present are
tween

this

Wild-Type Male

Miniature Female
Parents

Pi gametes

F^

Wild-Tj^je Females

Miniature Males

X X

XY

Fi gametes

XX

XX
Miniature

Female
Fig. 33.

XY

XY

Wild-Type Miniature Wild-Type
Male
Male
Female

Diagram of sex-linked inheritance in a cross between a minia-

ture-winged female and a wild-type male of Drosophila melanogaster.

This

the reciprocal of the cross in Fig. 32.
The Fi consists of wild-type
females and miniature males and the F2 of equal numbers of wild-type
females, miniature females, wild-type males, and miniature males.
The
relationship of the Pi and Fi generations has resulted in the term ''crissis

cross" inheritance for this cross.

distributed and behave in exactly the

same fashion

as genes

located in autosomes.

ZW and ZO Sex Linkage.

In animals with the Abraxas and
similar types of sex inheritance, the results obtained in the Fi

and F2 will be the reverse of those in the XY and XO types.

One of the best-known examples is the barred gene in Plymouth

Sex Linkage

99

Rocks and several other types of domestic chickens (Fig. 34).
Barred feathers (B) are dominant over nonbarred (b) and these
genes are on the Z chromosome. In the chicken, the male is
ZZ, having eighteen pairs of chromosomes, and the female is ZO,
having only one sex chromosome in addition to the seventeen
,

pairs of autosomes.

Daltonism.

Several striking sex-linked characters have been

found in human beings.

One of them is a type of color blindness

Fig. 34. A nonbarred Rhode Island Red (left) and a barred Plymouth
Rock. Barred is the result of a dominant gene B and is located on the Z
chromosome. (Courtesy of Dr. F. A. Hays.)

known as Daltonism which is caused by a recessive gene.

In-

dividuals not possessing the dominant allele cannot distinguish

As human beings follow the XY type
of sex inheritance, a cross between a heterozygous woman and a
between red and green.

normal man w^ould produce normal daughters; half the sons
would be normal but the other half would be color blind. Thus
men inherit color blindness from their mother and not from
This red-green color blindness is very much rarer
their father.
The frequency of men is 8 per cent and
in women than in men.
that of women 0.64 per cent, or the frequency of women equals
the frequency of men squared.
It is interesting to consider

only one

X chromosome

why this is so.

Since men have

and therefore only one gene at that

they will be color blind if this single gene is recessive.
Women, however, will not be color blind unless they have two
locus,

Genes in the X and Y Chromosomes

100

recessive genes.

If a color-blind man marries a normal

homozy-

gous woman, all his offspring will be normal, although his daugh-

and will therefore be ''carriers." It is
only when a color-blind man marries a "carrier" that an individual with two recessives can be formed. Such an individual
would be a color-blind woman. The number of carriers and the
number of color-blind men are small when compared with
normal people. Therefore, if mating is at random, as it usually
is, the chance that a carrier would marry a color-blind man is
ters will be heterozygous

very small.

Since even then such a marriage does not neces-

produce a daughter, and since only half the daughters
would be expected to be color blind, the chance that a colorsarily

blind woman would be produced is extremely small.

community became

settled

If a small

by several families one of which
and if this community was so

carried

the

isolated

by geographical, racial, religious, or other factors that

color-blind

gene,

there tended to be a great deal of intermarriage within the com-

woman would appear
would be much greater than in the usual situation of purely
random mating. However, even in such a community, more
men than women would be color blind.
Hemophilia. Hemophilia is another sex-linked human character which is caused by a recessive gene. Individuals possessing
this character show a deficiency in the power of their blood to
clot, with the result that they may bleed to death from a cut
which, in a normal person, would be regarded as trivial. Consequently, people with this character are ''bleeders" and frequently
munity, the chance that a color-blind

fail to live to

reach their twenties.

Just as they are less likely

to be color blind, and for the same reason, women are much less
likely

than men to have hemophilia.

In fact,

it

has generally

been questioned whether such women do or even could exist.
Snyder examined 250 published pedigrees of hemophilia and
found only one in which a known hemophilic male was married
to a known carrier.

In this family and one from his own records

there were three normal daughters and two hemophilic sons.

Since half the daughters from that type of mating would be

expected to be normal, these two families are inconclusive.

The

women can have hemophilia is unsolved.
The chances are extremely small and no known hemophilic
woman has yet been discovered and called to the attention of
question of whether

Sex Linkage in Plants
scientists.

101

Some geneticists have considered that two genes for

lemophilia have a lethal effect so that potentially hemophilic
A'omen would never develop much past the zygote stage of devel-

This hypothesis is wholly in accord with other known
genetic phenomena, but it has not been proved.
opment.

Other Sex-Linked Genes in Human Beings. Although green•ed color blindness and hemophilia are the two best-known sexinked characters in human beings, others have also been found,
^mong them are recessive genes for Gower's muscular atrophy,
ibsence of two center incisors, absence of sweat glands, optic
itrophy, some cases of nystagmus, some cases of microphthalmus,

;ome types of night blindness, and a dominant gene for defective

mamel of the teeth.
In Fig. 356 ten families are listed which seem to indicate that
I

certain fingerprint pattern is the result of a sex-linked recessive

This gene produces a radial loop rather than an ulnar loop

>ene.

)n the index finger of the right hand.

In eleven matings between

)eople who did not have a radial loop on that finger males were

produced who had the radial loop although none of their sisters
lad

it.

In the only two instances in which females were pro-

luced with a radial loop the fathers had radial loops.
ill

Although

the families are small, the evidence suggests that radial loops

from a sex-linked recessive gene and that the female
)arents of these families were heterozygous.
•esult

Sex Linkage in Plants
In most plants both sexes are represented in the same individual,

and sex is a matter

of development.

In some plants,

lowever, the sexes are separate, and sex is controlled by a mech-

mism similar to that in many animals. Genes located in these
;ex chromosomes behave in the same way as genes in the sex
chromosomes of animals. One of the earliest discoveries of sexinked genes in plants was made in Lychnis dioica independently
3y G. H. Shull and

Erwin Baur.

In this species, broad leaves

dominant to narrow. From the way these genes behaved
genetically, Baur and Shull concluded that they were located in a
^ex chromosome although cytological observation had not been
ire

nade.

If

homozygous broad-leaved females are crossed with

larrow-leaved males, the Fi plants are all broad-leaved.

In the

Genes in the

102

II

III

IV

Dt4 6o

X and Y Chromosomes

^

-O
Di<^ Dt^ Dt^

QAB=**Ti

r^*^,0

5 i
[>r(^

kbbk

J^J^KTT
Fig, 35.

Human pedigrees,

(a)

Inheritance of crooked

minor streblomicrodactyly, a simple dominant.

little

(From Hefner

fingers,

in

the

Journal of Heredity.) (6) Inheritance of the radial loop fingerprint pattern on the right index finger, probably the result of a sex-linked recessive
gene. (From Walker in the Journal of Heredity.) In both diagrams, males

by squares and females by circles. Individuals that show
by black or solid squares or circles in
contrast to normals, who are represented by white or hollow symbols. In
human genetics it has become customary to place the male first in a cross
are indicated

the trait in question are identified

although in plant genetics the female is conventionally placed first.

Multiple Alleles in the

X Chromosome

103

females and half the males have broad leaves, whereas

Fo, the

have narrow leaves. More recently, cytological
observations in the species Lychnis alba which was included in
half the males

^hull's L. dioica

showed that an XY mechanism was present in

the male.

Multiple Alleles in the

X Chromosome

Multiple alleles are found in the
autosomes.

X chromosome as well as in

In fact, one of the first series of multiple alleles to

discovered was in the sex chromosome of Drosophila melano-

3e

At the

jaster.

found including

locus for white, a

number

W (red) and w^ (eosin). W

of alleles
is

may be

dominant to w^

md to w, and w^ is dominant to w. The following types of flies
?an be found:

(TFX) (TFX)— red female
(TFX) (w^X) red female
(WX) (wX) red female
(JVX) Y
red male
(w^X) (w^X) eosin female

—
—
—
—

(w'X) (wX)—eosin female
(w^X) Y
eosin male

—
(wX) (ivX) — white female
(wX) Y —white male

Thus homozygous red
crossed with white gives red females and red males in the Fi
md red females, red males, and white males in the F2 in a ratio
)f 2:1:1.
The reciprocal cross, white female by red male,
^ives red females and white males in the Fi and red females,
vhite females, red males, and white males in equal proportions
Various combinations can be crossed.

n the F2.

A red-eyed female may be heterozygous as well as homozyand the other allele may be the gene for white or the gene
eosin.
If a heterozygous red-eyed female which also has the

>'ous,

"or

^ene for eosin is crossed with a white-eyed male, the results are
•ather complicated.
)f

As can be seen from Fig. 36, the Fi consists

red females, eosin females, red males, and eosin males in

^qual numbers.

If all the possible

matings are made between

he two Fi females and the two Fi males and if each cross proluces a population of the same size, the F2 would contain a ratio
)f

five red females, three eosin females, two red males, two eosin

nales,

and four white males.

"emales.

There would be no white-eyed

Genes in the X and Y Chromosomes

104

Ww^

P,:

F,:

w\

X

red

white

female

male

Ww

wew

WY

weY

red

eosin

red

eosin

male

female
F2:

Ww X WY = WW + Ww + WY + wY
Ww X w^Y = Wwe w^w + WY + wY
w^w X WY = Ww^ + Ww + w^Y + wY
-(-

w^w X u-ey = w^we + w^w
Total

Fig. 36.
gaster.

:

-\-

w^Y + wY

5
3
2
2

red female
eosin female
red male
eosin male

4

white male

Inheritance of red, eosin, and white ej^es in Drosophila melano-

Red results from gene W (or+), eosin from ir^, and white from u\

These three genes form a series of multiple alleles for they are all found
chromosome. A cross between a Ww^ female
at the same locus of the
and a white-eyed male produces red and eosin males and females. All
four crosses between the two types of females and males result in red and
eosin females but red, eosin, and white males.

X

Y Chromosome Inheritance
If a
is

gene is located in a portion of the

not homologous with any part of the

Y chromosome which

X chromosome the char-

must be present in both father
and son, and must never appear in a female. Y chromosome
genes are apparently rare and in Drosophila melanogaster include
two genes for male fertility. Four genes reported for the Y chroacter resulting from

its

action

mosome in man are genes for ichthyosis hystrix gravior, a skin
ailment, for keratoma dissipatum, a skin ailment affecting the

hands and feet,

for hypertrichosis of the ears,

toes in certain families.

and for webbed

(In other families apparently a similar

but different gene is involved.)

The genetic distribution of a gene on the Y chromosome is
The male parent has the hypothetical
indicated in Fig. 37.
character A which is determined by gene A located in the Y

X

Half the gametes of this male parent have an
chromosome with no A gene, and the other half have a Y chromo-

.chromosome.

some in which an A gene is located. The female parent has two
X chromosomes but no A gene, and all her gametes lack A.
The daughters from this cross have two X chromosomes but they

Y Chromosome Inheritance
lave no

105

A gene and therefore do not show phenotypically the

Y chromosome.

?haracter A.

All the males, of course, have a

?ince all the

Y chromosomes of the male parent have gene A,

ill

the sons have gene A, and therefore all the males are pheno-

:ypically A.

It is mipossible to

say whether gene A is a domi-

--A

X

X

X

Y
male

female
phenotypically nonA

phenotypically

A

--A

X

X

X

Y
male

female
phenotypically nonA

phenotypically

A

Y chromosome. Since gene A is
which
is
with
any segment of the
chronot homologous
Dn a segment
nosome, there is no crossing over and gene A remains on the Y chromosome.
It, therefore, produces its effect in all males.
Fig. 37.

Inheritance of a gene on the

lant or recessive.

X

Since there

is

no corresponding allele in the

chromosome, we cannot say that gene A is either dominant
;o or recessive to anything.
In earlier days when the "presence
ind absence" hypothesis was in vogue, it was customary to refer
;o a dominant gene as present and to regard the recessive gene
is merely the absence of the dominant.
The discovery of mul^^

showed that dominance and recessiveness were not
nerely the presence or absence of one thing, but were really the
Dresence of two distinct things. There is no point to considering
:his Y chromosome gene as either dominant or recessive until
kve find an allele to which it is dominant or recessive.
;iple alleles

Genes in the

106

X and Y Chromosomes

Incomplete Sex Linkage
If a

in

gene is located in a chromosomal segment which is found

both the

X and Y chromosomes,

it is

incompletely sex-linked.

The behavior of a dominant gene located in the homologous part
of the X chromosome only is similar in many respects to sex
If that dominant gene is located only in the Y chromosome the results are comparable in part to Y chromosome inheritance. However, the results are always complicated by the
fact that the X and Y chromosomes in the male may exchange

linkage.

This exchange of segments is known
and is discussed in Chapter 10.

segments during meiosis.
as ''crossing over,"

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

A red-eyed female is mated with a white-eyed male. The offspring

(Fi) were 32 red-eyed females, 29 white-eyed females, 31 red-eyed males,

and 27 white-eyed males. What are the genotypes of the two parents?
2. A normal woman married to a normal man has two sons.
One is
normal and the other is a "bleeder." What do we know of the genotypes
of the parents?
3.

Mrs. A, who is normal, married Mr. B, who is also normal, and

they have one daughter, C.

Mrs. L, who is normal, has a normal son,

P, by her hemophilic husband, Mr. M.

R, who is a bleeder.

C and P marry and have one son

From which grandparent did R get his gene for

hemophilia ?
4.

In poultry, barred feathers are dominant over nonbarred, and are

sex linked.

A nonbarred hen is mated with a barred cock and three off-

spring are produced which are respectively a barred female, a nonbarred
female, and a barred male.
5.

What are the genotypes of the hen and cock?

A breeder has a nonbarred hen and a rooster heterozygous for

barred.

He wants to estabhsh a true-breeding race of barred poultry.

How would he do it, and how many generations would he have to raise
Would it take him a

before he was sure his poultry would breed true?

longer or a shorter time to establish a true-breeding nonbarred stock?
6.

Give the Fi and F2 of the following crosses of which the parental

genotypes are given: the symbols refer to eye color in Drosophila melayiogaster: TTTF

X wY; Ww^ X wY; Ww X wY; w^w^ X wY; w^w X wY]

WW X w^Y; Ww^ X w^Y; Ww X w^Y; wHv X w'Y] ww X WY; Ww^ X
WY; WwX WY] wHd^ X TFY; w^w X TFY; ww X WY.
7. A red-eyed female Drosophila is crossed with an eosin-eyed male.

The F2 consisted of 5 red females

;

2 eosin females

males; 4 eosin males; 2 white males.

;

1

white female

;

2 red

What are the genotypes of the

parents and the phenotypes and genotypes of the Fi ?

Questions and Problems

107

8. What is the method of inheritance of the human trait in the accompanying diagram? What is your reason?

-rO

?r
9.

Suggest a method of inheritance for the trait in the accompanying

diagram and explain.

D-rO

O-rD

2>tO

mcTrs^ 61
10.

In cats, gene b produces black fur and the allele B produces yellow.

The heterozygote has a peculiar fur called tortoise-shell. These genes are
in the

X chromosome. What are the Fi and F2 from crosses between a

black female and a yellow male and a yellow female and a black male?
11. If all black male cats were killed at birth, would tortoise-shell cats

be eliminated?
12.

Explain.

Would black cats be eliminated?

In Drosophila melanogaster sable body
,

(s)

is

Explain.

recessive to wild

type (S). These genes are sex linked. What are the phenotypes and
genotypes from a cross between a homozygous wild-type female and a
sable male and from the reciprocal cross?

Chapter 8

PROBABILITY
Perhaps one of the most frequently asked questions is, "What
People also wonder
is the chance that my child will be a boy?"
whether the chance that the fourth child will be a boy is greater
when the first three children are girls than it is when they are
boys. These and many other questions in genetics involve the
A student of genetics should become
theory of probability.
acquainted with the elements of the theory of probability, as
the interpretation of all genetic ratios is based on that theory.

For example, in tobacco, gene F, which produces anthocyanin
pigments in the flowers of Nicotiana Sanderae, is dominant over
its allele, /, which produces no color.
If a plant with colored
flowers is crossed with a white-flowered plant, and if the offspring consist of 672 colored plants, one would say that it is
highly probable that the colored parent was homozygous for F

and one would assume that as a working basis.
The situation is different in cattle, which cannot produce such
a large number of offspring.

The polled or hornless condition is

produced in cattle by gene

H and is dominant over horned (h).

cow is crossed with a horned bull, all the offspring
if the cow is homozygous for H, but the off1 ratio if the cow is heterozyspring should segregate into a 1
However, let us assume that only one calf is produced
gous.
from the mating. If the polled cow were of unkno\vn ancestry,
and a polled calf were produced, it would be impossible to tell
If the cow were homozygous, only
the genotype of the cow.
polled calves would be possible. On the other hand, if she were
heterozygous, it would be equally probable that the one calf
would be either polled or horned. If the calf had been horned,
there would be no doubt that the cow was heterozygous for it
would be impossible for a homozygous polled cow to produce a
A distinction must be made between certainty
horned calf.
and probability, and it must be realized, also, that the larger the
If a polled

should be polled

:

108

Probability

109

number of individuals, the greater the margin of safety when
deahng with probabiHties. One polled calf tells nothing.
"What

boys?

is

the probability that in a family of four

Is the

be
chance that there will be three boys and one girl
all will

greater or less than the chance that all four will be boys?

Both
are possible, so the question becomes one of probability.
The
ratio of men to women is actually about 106

:

100, but for prac-

tical

purposes it can be assumed that the chances are even, i.e.,

1

or more popularly "fifty-fifty." Since, as we are assuming,

:

1,

it is

equally probable that one child will be either male or female,

the problem is identical with the problem of whether a toss of a

That is a problem more
familiar to most people, so let us consider it first. If a penny is
tossed into the air, the chances are even that it will land head
or tail. AVith one toss, the chance of a head is % and of a tail,
The word "chance" does not imply that it is not a question
^2of cause and effect. The effect after tossing the coin is a head
or a tail, but the causes which determine that effect are numerous.
One cause is the way the coin is held in the hand. Another
cause is the exact motion of the fingers and arm as the penny is
being tossed. The height of the toss is still another factor for
if the height had been a trifle less, the other side, other things
being equal, would have turned up. The amount of spin to the
coin, air currents as the coin is ascending and descending, the
precise way the coin hits the ground, whether it strikes a smooth
coin will result in a head or a

place or a slight

tail.

bump in the ground, whether it rolls or lands

dead, how much it rolls

—

all

these are causes that work together

However, these causes are too difficult to
measure and too numerous to analyze. Furthermore, all are not
working in the same direction. Some of these causes tend to
make the penny turn up a head; other causes tend to make it a
tail.
By chance is meant that the effect is produced by a very
large number of causes, some of which act in one direction and
some in the other direction, some may be greater in effect and
some lesser, and all or most defy analysis. In other words, when
an effect is not produced by one or a few readily observed causes,
it is said to be due to chance.
When a penny is tossed, the chance of a head is %. The
same is true of a dime. If a penny and a dime are tossed
to produce the effect.

Probability

110

penny turns up head has absolutely no
bearing on whether the dime is head or tail.
They are two

together, whether the

they are tossed together, the chance
and the chance that the dime
that the penny will be head is
independent events.

If

%

will be head is

%

;

the chance that both will be head is

Whenever there

%.

are

% X /4 or

two independent events, the chance

that both will occur together is the chance that one will occur
multiplied by the chance that the other will occur.
if

the chance that team A beats team B

For example,

in football is %, and the

D in basketball is %, the chance
Similarly, the
that both A and C will win is % X
"K2chance that team C beats team

-/^

oi"

chance that both the penny and the dime will be tail is ^. In
the same way, the chance that the penny will be head and the

dime tail at the same time is % X Vz or ^, and the chance of a
simultaneous tail on the penny and head on the dime is %. If
the denominations of the coins are disregarded, and the only point
considered

is

the chance that either one will be a head while

the other is a tail, the chance is

^ + % or %. In sex, which we

discussed earlier, the chance that a certain child will be a

% and the chance

is

is

also

boy

% that the same child will be a girl.

two children the chance that both will be boys is
%, the chance that one will be a boy and the other a girl is %,
and the chance that both will be girls is ^4If there are

If three coins are tossed at a time, the
is

chance of three heads

X % X % or %, and the same is true of three tails.

/^

chance of two heads and a tail is

and two tails is the same.

The

% and the chance of one head

The chance that three children will be

boys is similarly %, and the chance that all will be girls is also
Yg.

In a family of three, the chance of getting two boys and a

girl is

% and the chance of one boy and two girls is also %. The

algebraic-minded student will begin to see that this fits in with
the binomial theorem, which is generally expressed by (a

In problems dealing with probability, this
iv

is

+ b)^.

usually written

+ 9)", where p is the chance that a certain event will happen,

q the chance that it will not happen, and n is the number of
individuals concerned in the event.
In sex, p could represent
the chance that an individual would be a boy, and would be %,

and q would represent the chance that the child would not be a
boy (and, therefore, the chance of its being a girl) and would

Probability
also be %.

Naturally, p -f g = 1.

111

When (p + g)" is expanded,

the coefficients represent the number of cases, the exponent of p
represents the number of successes of p, and the exponent of q
the number of failures of p or number of successes of q. If three
coins are tossed, n is 3, p, the chance of a head, equals %, and q,

the chance of not being a head and therefore of being a

tail,

equals %.
+ Sp^q + ^pq^ + q^Adding the exponents, we have eight cases in all. One of the
eight has all three heads and is represented by the term p^.
One of the eight has no heads and is represented by q^. Three
of the eight have two heads and one tail, and three have one
head and two tails; these two situations are represented by the
terms Sp^q and Spq^, respectively.
In a family of five children (or in five tosses of a coin), what
will be the chance that all will be boys (or head, etc.)?
Here
the binomial becomes {p + q)^, and when this is expanded the

The expanded binomial is p^

result is p^

+ dp'^q + lOp^q^ + lOp^q^ + 5pq* + q^.

coefficients are

added, there are thirty-two cases.

If the

They will be

distributed as follows:
All boys (or heads) and no girls (or tails)

—
— — —
p^q^
^%2
p^q^ — 1%2
—%2
—
p^ 3^'^2
p^g ^:32

Four boys (or heads) and one girl (or tail)
Three boys (or heads) and two girls (or tails)
Two boys (or heads) and three girls (or tails)
One boy (or head) and four girls (or tails) pq"^
No boys (or heads) and all girls (or tails) q^ J^^2

In other words, the chance of getting a family of four boys and

one girl is 5 out of 32.
p^ = p
•'-

P^ =

K

•

5/g = 5(p
...

p

3^

•

^ H H = J^2

p

'

p

K

•

'

5/g = 5(3^

p = 14)

'

p

•

This can also be arrived at as follows:

.

-

p

'

p;
•

•

'

p

3^

'

•

q);

p = ^2

J^

3^)

•

and

g = J^;

= %2

This same method can also be applied to cases in genetics other
than sex. A testcross will illustrate exactly the same situation.
If the polled Fi calf is mated

ratio is 1 polled

:

1

horned.

mth a horned animal, the theoretical
Therefore, in the binomial, p (poUed)

Probability

112

= 3^ and q (horned or not polled) = 3^. With four offspring the

+

q)"^,
which
various probabiUties would be determined by (p
6p^q^
5^To determine the chance
4pg^
4p^g
equals p^

+

+

+

+

that two animals would be polled and two horned, the term Gp^q^
Substituting the values of p and q gives Q{p p)iq q)
is used.
•

or 6(3^

•

yQ or %6.

'

}/i){}/2

•

Thus, out of everj^ sixteen such

families of four, six should be expected which would include two

polled and two horned offspring.

So far, we have considered only 1 1 ratios, but the same method
can be appUed to 3 1 and other ratios. If a homozygous colored
:

:

tobacco plant is crossed with a white, a 3 1 ratio should be expected in the F2. That is, the chance that any one F2 plant would
and the chance that any plant of the F2
have red flowers is
:

%

generation should have white flowers

Therefore, p (the
chance of red-flowered plants) = ^i and q (the chance of the failis

}i.

ure of a plant to be red-flowered) = }yi. In a family of five plants,
q)^ and
the probabilities would be obtained by expanding (p

+

would be:
p^ =

p-p-p-p-p = ^'^i-^-^'^ = 243 families

5p^q = 5{p

out of 1024 with 5 red-flowered plants
'

lies

% %

Ji)34 = 405 famip)q = 5(M
out of 1024 with 4 red-flowered and 1 white-

p

•

p

•

'

•

-

flowered plant

mH H

H)iH H) = 270
p)(q q) =
families out of 1024 with 3 red-flowered and 2 white-

lOpV ^ io(p

•

p

•

'

'

•

flowered plants

^H

M

q- q) =
M) = 90
H)(H
P)(q
red-flowered
and
with
2
3 whitefamilies out of 1024

lOpV = 10(P

•

'

'

'

flowered plants

5p?^ = 5{p)iq

•

q- q) = b

q

families out of 1024 with

H{}4
1

'

M K
'

Ji)

'

= 15

red-flowered and 4 white-

flowered plants
q^

= q-q-q'q-q = M-%'M'M-}4. = ^ family out
of 1024 with 5 white-flowered

and no red-flowered

plants

In other words, even

a ratio of three red to one white

if

is

expected, a family of five white-flowered plants is not impossible
for it

would be expected to happen

Other ratios than the

1

:

1

in one case out of

1024.

and the 3

mono-

testcross ratio

:

1

113

Probability

hybrid ratio are frequently encountered in genetics.

would be the same

The method

for them.

It will be noted that the sum of the probabilities of all possible

events gives a total probability of
children in which a ratio of 1

sum

of all

Thus, in the family of 5

1.

boy

to

the possible probabilities

1

(i.e.,

girl

is

involved, the

the probability of 5

boys + the probability of 4 boys and 1 girl, etc.) is ^%2, or 1,
whereas in a 3 1 ratio with 5 plants, the sum of the probabilities
is ^^-^1024? 01' 1The value of 1 is certainty, and unless an
:

event

certain,

is

its

probability

is

expressed as a fraction or

The expression p -\- q = 1 must be true, for 1 — p = q,
which means that the certainty of an event less the probability
decimal.

that it will happen equals the probability that it will not happen.
If an event is certain, the probability that it will happen is 1

the probability that it will not happen is 0, so 1

—

and

= 1.

In Nicotiana Sanderae a testcross showed 672 colored and no
white plants.

If the colored

parent were heterozygous, would it

be possible for so many colored plants and no white plants to be

were possible, what then would be the probability? Since this is a testcross, the ratio would be 1
1; therefore p = y2 and q = y2The binomial (p H- q)^"^^ could be
expanded, but this would not be necessary, since the first term

produced?

If

it

:

would give all the information needed. The probability of getting a family of 672 colored plants from a testcross would be
p^'^ or (%)^'^-.

It is very obvious that the probability of getting

such a result from a cross between a heterozygote and a recessive
is

so small that one would be well justified in

colored plant tested

assuming that the

was homozygous.

This last example shows that although the method of binomial
expansion is theoretically correct it has some very practical limiIn practice, it is not usual to apply this method to populations over 50, as it is far too cumbersome. In fact, even with

tations.

numbers between 15 and 50, the binominal expansion becomes
unwieldy. Warwick, however, has worked out the probabilities
for numbers up to 50, and by using his tables, much labor is
avoided. For example, in Nemesia strumosa, orange flower color
A cross of an orange by a white gave a
is dominant over white.
ratio of 25
17, when the expected testcross ratio would have
been 21 21. An examination of Warwick's table shows that
the probability of getting a ratio of 25 dominants and 17 re:

:

114

Probability

cessives out of 42 plants is 0.0579.

Geneticists are usually not so

much concerned with the chance that all the members of a certain
family will be of a certain phenotype or that a family will segregate into a given ratio as with the problem of how truly a certain

observed ratio fits a theoretical (expected) one and whether the
deviations found in the observed ratio are due to chance alone
or whether they are so large in relation to the number of indi-

viduals in the population that the ratio cannot be considered a
true example of the theoretical one.

Standard and Probable Error
Several methods are in use for determining whether a certain

observed ratio

is

a true

example of a certain theoretical one.

Two methods are the standard error and the probable error.
These methods are based on the deviation of the observed ratio
from a theoretical ratio comprised of the same number of individuals.

The standard error of the ratio is expressed by o- =

^ where p is the probability of the first term of the ratio,
\ n
q the probability of the second term, and n the number of
fP

'

individuals.

To show how this method is applied in practice, let us take
a ratio published by Professor Sewall Wright for guinea pigs.

Gene A produces what is called the agouti coat color and its
allele produces a nonagouti coat.
A heterozygote was crossed
with a nonagouti and the offspring segregated into 48 agouti
and 63 nonagouti. This is not an exact 1 1 ratio, and the problem is to find out why. There are a number of possible reasons.
:

Other genes may be exerting an effect to suppress the action of
the agouti gene, the environment may be affecting the expression
of the agouti gene so that some agouties actually look like non-

may less frequently survive in birth,
other genetic explanations may have to be sought, or the deviation from the exact ratio may be due to chance alone, in which
case this ratio may be considered to be a 1
1 ratio even though
agouties, agouti animals

:

it

deviates to some extent.

There are two ways of applying the

must be expressed as actual numbers
or they must be converted into percentages, but the two methods
formula.

All the figures

Standard and Probable Error

115

must not be mixed.

Using the actual numbers in Wright's guinea
pig experiment, we may apply the method as follows:

Observed numbers

A

a

48

63

P

55.5 X 55.5

q

•

n

Expected (1:1) numbers 55.5

55.5

Observed deviation

7.5

7.5

7.5

= 5.27

111

= 1.4

5.27

The standard deviation or standard error is 5.27 and the observed deviation is 7.5. The actual deviation is only 1.4 times
the standard error.
If it were more than twice the standard
error, we should consider that the observed ratio probably is not a
true example of a 1
1 ratio and we should then proceed to search
:

for
is

an explanation.

In the guinea pig experiment, the deviation

only 1.4 times the standard error so that we are safe in assum-

ing that a ratio of 48

:

63

a 1

is

:

1 ratio

within the limits of

probability and we do not need to try to explain the excess of
recessives.

The same method may be used by converting the

numbers into percentage and finding the standard error in percentage; p and q are then also expressed in percentages.

Observed numbers
Per cent of each class
Expected per cent
Deviation in per cent
p

•

q

a
63
56.8
50
6.8

0.50 X 0.50

n
6.8 per cent

A
48
43.2
50
6.8

= 4.8 per cent

111

= 1.4

4.8 per cent

The deviation expressed in per cent is 6.8 and the standard error
is

4.8 per cent.

Again the deviation is

1.4

times the standard

With either method the result is the same, but the student
must remember that if the standard error is expressed in per cent,
the deviation must also be expressed in per cent.
error.

While the equation a =

P

'

n

q

is the equation for the standard

error of any ratio, the student will frequently find that his calculations will be simplified for figuring the standard error of a 1

:

1

Probability

116

= '}/2\/n, which is algebraically the
=
=
and
By this method the calcula3^n
3^n.
same since p
q
ratio if he uses the formula a

tion of the previous problem becomes:

^

= y^-y^n = Yi

'

10.54

This formula can be used only for a 1
Ratios other than

1

:

1

:

= 5.27

1 ratio.

may also be tested by this method.

Let us examine a possible 3

:

1 ratio.

In Nemesia strumosa a

common type of flower has white lips whereas a less common but
very attractive type has a margin of blue around all the upper
lips

of the corolla.

This blue-margin type

is

found in plants

homozygous for bm, a recessive gene, whereas the white type that
lacks the blue margin has the dominant allele, Bm. Two whiteflowered plants were crossed and the progeny segregated into 86
white and 23 blue-margin. Is this ratio a true example of a 3 1
ratio?
If so, it must be presumed that both white-flowered
parents were heterozygous.
Let us find it by the percentage
method
:

Chi Square

117

The deviation in this problem is 4.25 so that the deviation
divided by the standard error is ^•^%.52 or 0.94, which agrees
with the result obtained previously. The probability of occurrence for various ratios of the deviation to the standard error
are listed in Table 2.

The methods
except

similar

standard error.

probable and the standard errors are
the probable error is 0.6745 times the

of the

that

If the deviation is greater

probable error, the observed ratio

ample

of the

is

considered not a true ex-

The probable

theoretical.

than three times the
error has been used

Because it requires a further
multiplication, there is a tendency today to replace it with the
standard error, although many geneticists still use the older
method.
longer than the standard error.

Chi Square
Still
is

another method of determining whether an observed ratio

a true example of a theoretical ratio

is

the x^ (chi square)

method. It is often used when the ratio includes more than two
terms, as explained in Chapter 9, but is also useful when there
are only two terms. Chi square is obtained by finding the actual
deviations of the observed

frequency from the expected fre-

quency for each term of the ratio, squaring them, dividing each
squared deviation by the expected frequency of that term, summating these values, and finding the probability from the appropriate place in a prepared table which lists the probabilities for
various values of x^-

we return to our problem of orange and white flowers in
Nemesia strumosa, we recall that a cross between an orangeIf

flowered plant and a white-flowered plant yielded a ratio of 25

orange to 17 white.

On the basis of a 1

Is this a true
:

example of a testcross ratio?

1 ratio, we should

white-flowered plants.

expect 21 orange- and 21

Let x^ represent the observed number of

orange plants and Xo the observed number of whites.

Then let m

represent the expected number in each class, which happens to be

the same since this is a 1

:

1 ratio.

To determine ^, we use the

- m)^

{x2

formula
(xi

m

- m)^

m

Probability

118

TABLE 2
Showing the Probability of Occurrence of Statistical Deviations
OF Different Magnitudes Relative to the Standard Error
(From Pearl with the permission of the W. B. Saunders Company.)

Deviation

Chi Square

119

Substituting, we have
2

X

=

(25-21)2

(17-21)2

21

21

=

(4)2

(_4)2

21

21

^g

jg

21

21

=

= 0.762 + 0.762
The value of x^ for this particular problem is 1.524, but what
does that mean? How do we know whether this ratio is a true
example of a 1 1 ratio merely by knowing that x^ = 1.524?
Without going any more deeply into the mathematics behind all
this, we may say that it is fairly generally agreed that whenever,
:

problem such as the one above, x^ is 3.841 or larger, the
observed ratio is probably not an illustration of the ratio for
which it was tested. To restate that, if x^ is 3.841 or larger it is
considered to be significaiitly great or merely significant. In a
in a

ratio involving only two terms, such as 1

:

1 or 3

:

1,

when x^ is

greater than 3.841 the chance of getting this ratio as the result
of chance alone

is

one out of 20.

In other words,

we cross

if

a heterozygote with a recessive we should expect that our family

would segregate into an observed ratio having a x^ greater
than a 3.841 in only 5 per cent of the cases. In our problem,
It has been calculated that a family with such a
X^ = 1.524.
X^ value

would occur in 20 to 30 per cent of the families tested.

Since the probability of getting a 25

21

:

:

17 ratio when we expect

21 are between 20 and 30 per cent, it is highly probable that

our ratio is a true example of a 1

our ratio had been 28

14,

:

:

1 ratio.

If,

on the other hand,

would it be considered a 1

1 ratio?

:

Now the value of x^ is:
2

^

(14 - 21)2 ^
_ (28 - 21)2
q^ (-7)2 _ 49
"^
~
~
~ 21
21
21
21
21 "^

49
21

= 2.333 + 2.333 = 4.666
Since this value of x^ lies beyond the 5 per cent point, we should

say that it is significant and that a 28
a true example of a 1

:

:

14 ratio is probably not

1 ratio.

The x^ method is equally applicable for testing a 3

:

1 ratio,

in which, of course, the expected frequency is different for each

Let us designate the observed frequency of any term by
X and the expected frequency by m, and let us use as an illustraterm.

120

Probability

two white-flowered Nemesia plants
which produced 86 white and 23 blue-margin plants.
tion the cross between the

(x

— m)'^

Samples

121

rence in per cent due to chance alone of a deviation as great as
(or greater than)

one from an expected ratio of 3

:

3.

Samples

The student might well be inclined to ask why it is necessary
methods in genetics and why they were invented in the first place. If we cross two Nemesia plants whose
to apply statistical

genotypes are Bmbm, we should get a ratio of three white to one
blue-margin, and we should get exactly such a 3

:

1 ratio if

we

had an infinite number of offspring. Similarly, if we tossed a
coin an infinite number of times, we should get heads and tails
in exactly equal numbers. However, the student must be aware
that an infinite number of plants does not exist and that there
is no such thing in our finite world as an infinite number of
tosses.

If

we raise 100 or 200 or even 1000 plants, we still do

not have the entire theoretical population of offspring that might

be produced from such a cross.

What we have is a sample, and

from this sample we must judge whether or not the entire popu-

would be segregating into a 3 1 ratio. Samples are
subject to the laws of chance, and statistical methods are applied
to the sample to determine whether the variation shown by the
sample from the theoretical ratio is merely the degree of varilation

:

ation that chance alone would produce in a given percentage of

samples or whether the variation

is

so great that

it

is

highly

improbable that the observed ratio could be considered a sample
of the theoretical ratio

we are considering.

Statistical methods are also applied to finite populations which

are so large that it is impractical to examine every individual of
If we

have a carload of ears of corn to be sold,
the purchaser must, of course, have an idea of the quality of the

the population.

would be impractical to
examine every ear, he examines merely a small sample, and on
the basis of that sample he judges what he will pay for the
entire carload.
Obviously, such a sample will not be an exact
corn before he purchases

it.

Since

it

picture of the whole population, but if it is obtained in a purely

random manner, and if it is reasonably large, it will furnish a
sufficiently accurate estimate of the

whole carload.

Probability

122

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

If a

family contains six children, what is the probability that all

will be boys; that all will be girls; that there will be four boys

and two

girls ?
2. If a

penny, dime, and nickel are tossed at the same time, what is

the chance that there will be three heads; that there will be two heads

and a tail; that the penny and dime will be heads and the nickel tail?
3. A man tosses a penny 200 times and gets 150 heads and 50 tails.
Using

x^, figure

If not, how could you account for it?

attributed to chance?
4.

Can the deviation be

the probability of this result.

In drawing blindly from a complete pack of cards which has been

thoroughly shuffled, what is the chance of drawing a red ace; the ace of

diamonds; a red card?
5.

A man draws the ace of diamonds from a pack of cards. What is

the chance that he will draw the ace of hearts on the next draw ?

Is the

chance any different whether or not he replaces the ace of diamonds before he makes the second draw ?
6.

What is the chance that one of the four hands in a bridge game

will contain all
7.

Why ?

spades?

Two men draw seven cards each from a complete pack, replacing

each card and reshuffling after each draw.

diamonds, two spades, and a club.

A draws one heart, three

B draws six hearts and a club.

What is the chance that A will draw a heart on the eighth draw ? What
the chance that B will

draw a heart on the eighth draw?
Family A has four boys and family B four girls. Which family
has a better chance of obtaining a boy for the fifth child? Explain.
9. In maize, green silks are dominant to salmon.
Maize is regularly
cross-pollinated. A farmer who had both varieties sows the seeds of a
plant which was heterozygous (Smsm), but he has no idea of the male
parentage of these seeds. He obtains 74 green-silked and 39 salmonsilked plants. Using x^, figure the probability that this is a 1
1 and
that it is a 3 1 ratio. From the probabilities obtained, what would you
conclude as to the male parent or parents of these seeds?
10. A farmer has one green-silked maize plant growing in a field of

is

8.

:

:

salmon-silked plants.

He detassels the green-silked plant. He uses the

seed from this plant and obtains 167 green-silked and 173 salmon-silked

What is the probability that this plant
What is the possibility that it was a homozygote?

plants in the next generation.

was a heterozygote ?
11.
sives.

A heterozygote, when selfed, gives 632 dominants and 199 recesWhat is the probabihty that this is a 3

:

1

ratio?

Figure this by

both the standard error and x^ methods and compare the results.

Are
Are they fundamentafly different or is the difference
between the two methods insignificant?
they identical?

Questions and Problems
12.

123

A green-silked maize plant is crossed with a salmon-silked plant.

The offspring segregated into 220 green and 180 salmon.

Is the devia-

tion significant?

problem 12 segregated into 420 green and 380
Here the deviation is the same but
the sample is larger. Why should this make any difference?
14. Using the same number of plants in problem 12 (400 plants), what
must be the deviation from expected to give the same value of x^ as
was obtained in problem 13?
15. In the following six experiments (Wright in Genetics) the size of
the family and the percentage of males obtained in each experiment are
Determine by the method of the standard error whether males
listed.
and females are produced in equal proportions in the guinea pig.
13. If the offspring in

salmon, is the deviation significant ?

Experiment

(AB)B

(AD)D
(AF)F
(AE)E
(BD)2
(CD)2

Number of
Individuals

of Males

486
359
417
230
380
285

47.9
45.7
48.9
55.7
47.9
46.7

Per Cent

16. In guinea pigs, gene p produces pink eye and P produces black.
Wright crossed two animals which were supposedly heterozygous and
obtained 197 black and 90 pink. Calculate how much greater is the
deviation than the standard error.
Can this be considered a true
example of a 3 1 ratio? If not, how do you explain the ratio obtained?
Could such a result possibly be explained as an extreme chance deviation? Consult Wright's paper for his explanation.
17. Determine the probability that the observed ratio in problem 16
is a true example of a 3
1 ratio by the x^ method.
:

:

Chapter 9

THE DISTRIBUTION OF TWO OR MORE PAIRS OF
ALLELES IN TWO OR MORE CHROMOSOMES
Two Pairs of Genes in Two Pairs of Autosomes
In Zea

mays there are ten pairs of chromosomes, and they

can be distinguished from one another by their size and genTheir morphological characteristics include
eral morphology.
the position of their centromeres, the presence and position of

secondary constrictions, and the presence of knobs of various
sizes

on the ends of the chromosomes (Fig. 38).

distinguish

the various

The ability to

chromosomes enables us to say that

when a maize plant undergoes meiosis, one member of each pair
chromosomes enters each gamete. Furthermore, there is a
great amount of evidence to show that the segregation of any
one pair is entirely unaffected by the segregation of any other
pair, but most of this evidence is genetical rather than cytoof

logical.

In chromosome VI of maize, a gene is present for purple plant
color, PI, which is dominant to its allele for green, pL

A homozy-

gous purple plant crossed with a green gives a purple Fi and
three purple to one green in the F2.

gene for normal leaves, Cr,

is

In chromosome III, the

dominant to crinkly

leaves, cv,

and when a homozygous normal is crossed with a crinkly, the Fi
is normal and the F2 segregates into three normal and one
crinkly.
If a plant which is homozygous for both purple color
and normal leaves is crossed with one that has green color and
crinkly leaves, the Fi is purple and normal and is heterozygous
This Fi plant receives the genes PI and
for each pair of genes.
Cr from its female parent and the genes 'pl and cr from its male
parent, and when it undergoes meiosis the chromosome which
bears PI separates from the one with

yl.

In like manner the

chromosome bearing Cr separates from its homologue which
bears cr. However, the segregation of the PI and pl chromo124

Two Pairs of Genes in Two Pairs of Autosomes

125

somes is entirely independent of the segregation of the Cr and
cr chromosomes, so that four types of gametes will be produced
by the Fi plant in equal numbers.
Once the maternal and the paternal chromosomes enter the
Fi their identity as maternal and paternal chromosomes is en-

7

10

chromosomes of Zea mays showing the
The centromeres (kinetochores)
relative mean length at midprophase I.
are indicated by open circles, the known knob positions by black circles,
and the nucleolus-organizing body by stippling. (Redrawn from Longley
Fig. 38.

Diagram

of

the ten

in the Botanical Review.)

The way the homologues of one pair separate is
entirely unaffected by the way the homologues of any other pair

tirely lost.

separate.

It is purely a matter of chance whether an Fi

gamete

which has a "maternal" chromosome III will also have a "maternal" chromosome VI or whether it will have a "paternal"

chromosome VI.

Since it is entirely a matter of chance, the four

types of gametes will be present with equal frequency, within

Dihybrids, Trihybrids, and Polyhybrids

126

This phenomenon, known as independent assort77ient, is the second law of Mendel. It applies to
all ten pairs of chromosomes in maize and not merely to the two
the limits of statistical error.

In maize, each of the ten pairs of chromosomes segregates entirely independently of any other pair, so
that gametes from Fi plants will be found with all numbers of
pairs just mentioned.

either maternal or paternal chromosomes from zero to ten.

This

Fig. 39. Four inherited types of rosette leaves in Capsella (Bursa).
These types result from the independent assortment of two pairs of genes.
Gene A draws out the primary lobes of the leaves into relatively long
sharp points whereas in aa plants the primary lobes are rounded. Gene B
divides the leaf by deep sinuses, usually reaching nearly or quite to the
midrib, but in hb plants the sinuses are not so deep. The four types from
left

to right with their genotypes are:

rhomhoidea ; and ab or simplex.

AB or heteris; Ab or tenuis; aB or

(Photographs courtesy of Dr. G. H. Shull.)

law of independent assortment applies to all plants and animals
as well as to maize (Fig. 39).
This independent separation of the homologous chromosomes
of each pair was suspected on genetic grounds long before it was

show
cytologically because the two members of a pair of homologous

demonstrated cytologically.

It

is

normally

difficult

to

chromosomes are identical in appearance except in a few rare
instances. The independent segregation of two or more pairs of
chromosomes can be detected cytologically only if the two
homologues of each of the two or more pairs can be differen-

Normally that is
from one another morphologically.
impossible. Miss Carothers, however, found that in the orthopteran, Trimerotropis siifjusa, there are three pairs of homologues,
each consisting of one chromosome with a centromere at the end

tiated

Two Pairs of Genes in Two Pairs of Autosomes

127

and one in which the centromere is not at the end
(atelomitic). That these can be arranged at metaphase in four
(telomitic)

ways so as to give eight different gametes (Fig. 40)
shows that the members of one pair segregate entirely indedifferent

pendently of other pairs.

UI

fti f»J

H«

Fig. 40. Independent segregation of chromosomes. Three pairs of heteromorphic chromosomes are present and separate in all possible combina(Redrawn from Carothers in the Journal of Morphology.)
tions.

In a monohybrid the gametes of the male

Recombination.

random fashion with the gametes of the
when the Fi is heterozygous for more

unite in an entirely
female.

It is also true

than one pair of genes.

Let us illustrate this point in a dihyhrid,

where the Fi is heterozygous for two pairs of genes. In the
cross between PlPl CrCr and plpl crcr the Fi is Plpl Crcr. Four
kinds of eggs and four kinds of male gametes are formed by the

Fi plant.

They

are genetically PI Cr, PI cr, pi Cr, and pi cr.

Any male gamete can unite with any egg, and in fact does so
with equal frequency.

The result of this combination of four

different eggs with four different male

gametes would be sixteen

and those sixteen possibilities can be illustrated by a
diagram known as a "checkerboard" (Fig. 41).
When the

plants,

various kinds of genotypes are tabulated the result is:
Genotypes

Phenotypes

1 PlPl CrCr'

2 PlPl Crcr

9 purple color, normal leaves

2 Plpl CrCr
4 Plpl Crcr

2 Plpl axr
_

,

,

-^

2 plpl Crcr
1 plpl

16

crcr

^ P^^Pl® ^o^o^' crinkly leaves
I

is green color, normal leaves
J

1

16

green color, crinkly leaves

128

Dihybrids, Trihyhrids, and Polyhybrids

Since dominance of both genes is complete, the phenotype ratio
in the

F2 is 9 Dominant Dominant

:

3 Dominant recessive

:

re-

Dominant
The checkerboard is an easy means of showing the results of

cessive

:

1 recessive recessive.

combining the four eggs with the four male gametes at random.
It is somewhat cumbersome, however, and need not be used if
the student approaches the F2 as a problem of combined ratios.
If for the moment only the PI and pi genes are considered, the
Fo genotypic ratio is 1 PlPl 2 Plpl 1 plpl. If, the genes C7'
:

:

Male Gametes

PlCr
m PI cr
bo

pl cr

PlCr
PlCr
PlCr

Pier

plCr

pi cr

Two Pairs of Genes in Two Pairs of Autosomes
binations can be worked out in the same way.

It

is

129

customary

to express the results by a ratio of whole numbers rather than of
fractions,

and the ratio of 9

:

3 : 3 : 1 is well known as the F2

dihybrid ratio.
Similar instances of dihybrid ratios could be cited by the

thousands in the

many

Monohybrid

Dihybrid

Dihybrid

genotypic ratios

genotypic ratios

phenotypic ratio

1
1

and animals that have been

plants

PlPl

^

CrCr

1

2 Crcr

PI PI CrCr

2 PlPl Crcr

9 purple, normal
1

PlPl crcr

2 Plpl CrCr

2 Plpl

^

2 Crcr

4 Plpl Crcr

K}
--^^
3 purple, crinkly

2 Plpl crcr

1 plpl

^

1

plpl CrCr

2

plpl Crcr

3 green normal
,

2 Crcr

crcr

_1_ plpl crcr

>

16

1

green crinkly
.

16

Phenotypic ratios only

^^„^ 3 normal — 9 purple, normal
3 purple cCT

^'^ 1 crinkly — 3 purple, crinkly

^ 3 normal — 3 green, normal
1

green =C[T

^^^ 1 crinkly — 1 green, crinkly

The determination of the F2 from the cross PlPl CrCr X plp^
The PI and pi genes segregate into

Fig. 42.

crcr by the method of combined ratios.

a genotypic ratio of
ratio

of

1

CrCr

:

1 PlPl

2 Crcr

:

:

2 Plpl

1 crcr.

:

1 plpl

and the Cr and cr genes into a

When the two independent ratios are

combined, the Fo genotypic ratio is obtained. Similarly, by combining the
phenotypic ratios of 3 purple 1 green and 3 normal 1 crinkly, the dihybrid phenotypic ratio results.
:

investigated genetically.

:

An example from Drosophila may be

used to show that the same phenomenon

is

observed in the

Animal Kingdom. Curved wing (c) is recessive to normal wing
(C) and is located in the second chromosome; ebony body (e)
is recessive to wild-type or gray (E) and is in the third chromosome. If a curved, ebony fly {cc ee) is crossed with one that is
homozygous for normal wing and gray body {CC EE), the Fi is
phenotypically normal-winged, has a gray body, and is genotypically Cc Ee. The Fo segregates into 9 normal-wing, gray 3
:

Dihybrids, Trihyhrids, and Poly hybrids

130

normal-wing, ebony 3 curved-wing, gray 1 curved-wing, ebony.
The Fi and F2 w^ould be the same both genotypically and phenotypically if one parent was homozygous dominant for one gene
and recessive for the second while the other parent was reces:

:

and homozygous dominant for the second.
Thus a homozygous normal-winged, ebony fly {CC ee) mated
with a homozygous curved, gray fly {cc EE) would give normalwinged, gray flies in the Fi and would produce an F2 ratio of 9
sive

the

for

first

normal,

ebony

curved,

gray

curved,

normal,

gray

ebony.

As in monohybrids, the results of reciprocal crosses are

:

3

:

3

:

1

the same.

Dihybrid ratios are much less
common in human beings because most of the characters that
have been discovered and analyzed genetically have been the

A Dihybrid Human Pedigree.

rarer abnormalities that appear in only a few isolated families.

Therefore, the chance that two such traits should appear in one

family

is

much more remote than the chance of getting a di-

hybrid in plants or other animals where the individual characters that have been discovered are of much wider distribution.
An interesting dihybrid pedigree was reported by Beers and
Clark.

In human beings short first toe is inherited as a simple autosomal dominant. Individuals with the gene for this character

have a short first metatarsal bone, and the big toe appears about
an eighth to a fourth of an inch shorter than the second toe.
Another human character is hemangioma or blood tumors which
are inherited in this pedigree as a simple autosomal dominant.
They are harmless but produce red spots from one millimeter
A woman who had short first
to several centimeters in size.
toes married a man with hemangioma. The woman apparently
was heterozygous as three of their offspring had short first toes
and two did not, but the man appears to have been homozygous
The three short-toed
for all the children had hemangioma.
children married people with neither short first toes nor hemanFour of their children had short first toes and hegioma.
mangioma; one had short first toes only and one had neither
short first toes nor hemangioma (Fig. 43).

Incomplete Dominance.

With one pair of alleles, when domi-

nance is incomplete, the Fi is intermediate and the Fo segregates

Two Pairs of Genes in Two Pairs of Autosomes
into a ratio of 1

plant
if

dominant

:

2 intermediate

:

131

1 recessive.

If a

segregating independently for two pairs of alleles and

is

dominance is incomplete in both, the F2 phenotypic dihybrid

ratio is the same as the genotypic.

brown lint

In cotton, when a plant with

(WW) is crossed with a plant that has white lint

d.48

d.68

55

49

7y^

d.65
d.68
Suicide Cancer Cancer Stroke

n
56

56

56

d.41

50

45

44

40

10

10

16

13

Stroke

(^Jli

m

26

m

and

16

28

^p

Hemangioma (Blood Tumor)

/'
Fig. 43.

23

29

26

Long Second Toe (Longer Than First)

A dihybrid pedigree in human beings.

(From Beers and Clark

in the Journal of Heredity.)

(ww), the Fi is cream (Ww) and the F2 segregates into a ratio
of 1

brown

:

2

cream

:

1 white.

When plants with red-spotted

leaves (SS) are crossed with plants that have no spots on the
leaves

(ss),

the Fi

(Ss)

has spots but they are of weaker in-

The F2 segre-

tensity than the spots on the red-spotted parent.

gates into a ratio of 1 deep spots

:

2 pale spots

:

1

no spots.

If

brown lint (SS WW) are
crossed with plants that have no spots and white lint (ss ww)
the Fi has intermediate spotting and cream-colored lint, and
plants which are spotted and have

the F2 segregates into:

Dihybrids, Trihyhrids, and Polyhybrids

132

brown
—deep
brown
2 Ss WW—pale
4 Ss Ww — pale spots, cream
SS WW — deep spots, white
1

SS WW

2 SS

spots,

lint

Ww —deep spots, cream lint
spots,

1

—pale spots, white
WW— no spots, brown
Ww —no spots, cream
WW — no spots, white Unt

2 Ss WW
1 ss

lint

2 ss

lint

1

ss

lint

lint

lint

lint

16

If there is complete dominance in one pair of genes but incom-

dominance in another pair, the r2 ratio is still different.
Von Tschermak showed that in barley normal spike is completely
dominant to branched and that tall culm is incompletely dominant to short.
If a homozygous normal-spiked, tall plant
(BB SS) is crossed with one homozygous for branched-spike
and short culm {bb ss) theTi is normal-spiked with culms of

plete

The F2 should then segregate into:

intermediate height.
1

BBSS 3 normal, tall

1 bb

SS branched, tall

2Bh SS

2 bb Ss branched, intermediate
2 BBSs

4B6 *Ss
IBBss
2Bb ss
Testcross.

\

6 normal, intermediate

[

3 normal, short

1

branched, short

bb ss

In maize the Fi between a homozygous purple,

normal-leaved plant and a green, crinkly-leaved plant is phenotypically purple and normal-leaved and produces four kinds of
Testcross

Method of Combined Ratios

"Checkerboard" Method

Gametes of Recessive

Testcross
Ratio of Plpl

pier

Combined
Testcross
Ratio of Crcr Testcross Ratio

lCrcr——l PlplCrcr

I PlCr Plpl Crcr
^Plcr Plpl crcr

1

crcr

1 Plpl crcr

^ plCr plpl Crcr

1 Crcr

1 plpl Crcr

fa plcr plpl crcr

1

crcr

1 plpl crcr

Fig. 44. The result of testcrossing or backcrossing an Fi plant heterozygous for PI and Cr with the double recessive. Left, the checkerboard

method, and, right, the method

of

combined ratios.

gametes in equal numbers: PI Cr, PI cr, pi Cr, and pi cr.

If this

Fi is backcrossed to a crinkly-leaved, green plant, the ratio of
offspring will be 1
1
1
1, shown by a checkerboard (Fig. 44)
:

or

:

:

by combining the testcross ratios of the individual pairs of
The testcross can be used for two independent genes in

alleles.

Autosomes and Sex Chromosomes
the same way as for one.
for both characters

phenotypically dominant

If a plant

suspected of being a double heterozygote,

is

can be tested with the double recessive.

it

dominant

is

133

heterozygous

for

both

the

If

genes

the

unknown

ratio

will

be

1:1:1:1, but if it is homozygous for both, all the offspring
will

be dominant for both characters.

If it is

homozygous for

one pair and heterozygous for the other, the testcross ratio will
be 1

1.

:

For example, if the "unkno^Ti" plant is genotypically

Plpl CrCr, the offspring of the testcross will be 1 purple, normal-

leaved

:

1 green,

Fz Generation.

normal-leaved.

When the various F2 plants are self- fertilized

to produce the F3 generation, all the plants of the

same pheno-

type do not produce the same results as they are not geno-

For example,

F2 of the cross between
homozygous purple, normal-leaved and green, crinkly-leaved

typically alike.

plants,

three-sixteenths

are

in the

purple and have

crinkly

leaves.

When they are self-fertilized, one-third of them breed true and
produce only purple, crinkly-leaved plants; but the other twothirds

produce both purple, crinkly-leaved plants and green,

crinkly-leaved plants in the ratio of 3

:

1.

AVhen all the various

kinds of Fo plants are selfed, the results are:
F2 Phenotypes

%Q purple, normal-leaved

F2 Genotypes
:

F3 Phenotypes

}^{PIPI CrCr)

gives all purple, normal

% {PlPl Crcr)

gives 3 purple normal

:

1

purple

crinkly

%{Plpl CrCr)

gives 3 purple normal : 1 green

%{Pl'pl Crcr)

gives 9 purple normal

normal
crinkly

:

3

green

3 purple

:

normal

:

1

green crinkly
^16 purple, crinkly

:

}/^{PlPl crcr)

gives all purple crinkly

% {Plpl crcr)

gives 3 purple, crinkly

:

1 green,

crinkly
/1 6 green, nqrmal

:

}/^{plpl CrCr)

gives all green, normal

% {plpl Crcr)

gives 3 green, normal

:

1

green,

crinkly

H green, crinkly
6

:

all {plpl crcr)

gives all green, crinkly

Autosomes and Sex Chromosomes
Independent segregation of chromosomes and their genes occurs between the sex

chromosome and a pair of autosomes as

Dihybrids, Trihyhrids, and Polyhybrids

134

well as between two pairs of autosomes as Miss Carothers dem-

onstrated cytologically in the invertebrate animals, Brachystola

magna, Arphia 'simplex, and Dissosteira Carolina. In each she
found a pair of autosomes which was heteromorphic ; that is, a
pair in which one of the homologues was visibly different from
In Arphia the male has one X chromosome and no Y
its mate.
chromosome, and the heteromorphic pair of autosomes consists
In a large number of
of a large and a small chromosome.
Miniature, Purple x Wild-Type

Wild-Type x Miniature, Purple
P, (XM) (XM) PrPr x (X/n) Y prpr

(Xm) (Xm) prpr x (XM) Y PrPr

(XM) Y Prpr

(XM){Xm) Prpr + (Xm) Y Prpr

F. (XMKXrn) Prpr +

F
'1(XM)(XM) PrPr normal, red female
\2iXM] iXM) Prpr
\l{XM){Xm) PrPr
2{XM){Xm) Prpr
"
purple"
1{XM]{XM) prpr
"
"
"
l[XM){Xm) prpr
"
red male
jliXM) Y PrPr
12(XM) Y Prpr
"
Y prpr
purple "
1 iXM)
fl(Xm) Y PrPr miniature, red male
"
"
i2(Xm) Y Prpr
"
purple "
KXm) Y prpr

Ml
•^

1

3
1

Fig. 45,

3 fllXM) (X ml PrPr normal, red female

\2[XM) iXm) Prpr
I ^XM) iXm) prpr
purple
|l(Xm) (Xm) PrPr miniature, red
3
*^
12 (Xm) (Xm) Prpr

''

••

1

HXm) iXm) prpr

1

o

(KXM)

Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y

'^12(XM)
1
1 (XM)
o

/KXm)

•^l2(Xm)
1
1 (Xm)

-

purple

••

PrPr normal, red male
Prpr
prpr

-

purple

"

PrPr miniature, red
"
"
Prpr
"
••

prpr

"

purple

"

The Fi and F2 of reciprocal crosses between a gene (miniature
X chromosome and one (purple eye) in an autosome. Left,

wings) in the

wild-type female

X miniature, purple male.

Right, miniature, purple fe-

male X wild-type male.

anaphases of the first meiotic division of males, the

X chromo-

some went into the same cell as the large member of the heteromorphic pair of autosomes about 50 per cent of the time.

The genetic ratios in
genes

is

in the

a dihybrid

when one

of the pairs of

X chromosome are naturally different from the

ratios when both pairs of genes are in autosomes.

melanogaster the gene for miniature wings

In Drosophila

{m)

is

in the

X

chromosome and the gene for purple eye (pr) is in the autosome, chromosome II. If a wild-type female, homozygous for
both
and Pr, is crossed with a miniature, purple male, all the
Fi flies are wild type and the phenotypic ratio in the F2 is 6

M

wild-type females
1 purple-eyed

:

male

2 purple-eyed females
:

3

3 wild-type males

miniature-winged males

winged, purple-eyed male.
results in both the Fi

:

1

miniature-

The reciprocal cross gives different

and F2 because

sex-linked gene (Fig. 45).

:

:

of the presence of the

Autosomes and Sex Chromosomes

FW

135

Measuring '^Goodness of
in Dihybrids. In Chapter 8, it
was pointed out that the test of whether an observed ratio fits a
theoretical expectation, such as 3:1 or 1:1, could be made
by comparing the deviation of the observed ratio with its standard error and that it could equally well be determined by the
In a ratio involving more than two terms, however,
X^ method.
the usual method of the geneticist is to determine goodness of

TABLE 3
Values of x" *

Degrees

Dihybrids, Trihybrids, and Polyhybrids

136

degree of freedom; therefore line one of the table must be used.

For a 9

:

3

:

3

:

1 ratio,

or other ratio

composed of four terms,

there are three degrees of freedom, and the probability

termined from the /^ value in the third

is

de-

line of the table.

In

ordinary ratios encountered in genetics, the number of degrees
of freedom is one less than the number of terms in the ratio.

A cross made by Demerec in maize can be used as an example.
A gene, Vs, causes very young seedlings to be yellowish white,
and is recessive to the normal green seedlings. These virescent-3
seedlings become green very quickly, but the effect of the gene
is

striking during early stages of the plant's

life.

Liguleless

normal (Lg). The F2 segregated into
769 nonvirescent, liguled 247 nonvirescent, liguleless 279 virescent, liguled
85 virescent, liguleless. The observed and expected frequencies with deviations and x" are:
leaf

(Ig)

is

recessive to

:

:

:

(Z - m)2
Class

Trihybrids
plicated.

If

137

two homozygotes are crossed, such as AA BB CC

X aci bb CC, the Fi is Aa Bb Cc.

heterozygous for all three

It is

and is known as a trihybrid. Since each pair of
homologous chromosomes acts independently of every other pair
at meiosis, there are eight different kinds of gametes formed by
the Fi and eight different kinds of
-^27 ABC
-3Cphenotypes in both the F2 and the
pairs of genes

,W

backcross of the Fi to the triple

In the F2 of the cross AA BB CC

phenotypic

ratio

3A

of

and

la

:

B and b a ratio of 35

'3C-

-^9A6C

:

16.

genes are considered alone, the F2

3^6

-Ic

9aBC

-3C

3 Abe

^Ic-

-*3aBc

-3C-

^3abC

.3B

Of the A plants, three-quarters will
be B and one-quarter b, and the a
plants will fall into the same ratio
with respect to the B and b phenotypes. Thus, if these two pairs of

^AB

— 9ABc

lb

X aabb CC, genes A and a give a
genes

~lc-

3a:

recessive.

But C

la.

lb
-"1 abc

The F2 trihybrid raby the method of combined ratios. The three indeFig. 46.

tio

:

Ic.

3A la
The F2 ra-

found

if

the

pendent

ratios

A

SB

3C

CC plant or animal crossed with

tio

is

:

3ai?

:

:

lab.

and c must also be considered.

one that is cc will produce an F2

phenotypic ratio of 3C
the segregation

of

Ic.

:

these

Since

genes

is

independent of both the other pairs,

will also

be

c;

types

of

the

AB

plants

lb;

:

is

are

:

:

original

AA BB CC X «« bb
cc, or AA BB cc X aa bb CC, or
AAbbccXaaBBCC, or AA
bb CC X aa BB cc, and
irreare

crosses

spective in each cross of which
is

three-quarters

= 64

Total

the male and which the fe-

male.

be C and one-quarter will

similarly,

three-quarters

{Ab, aB, and ab)

of them will be c.

will

of

be

each

of

the

other

pheno-

C and one-quarter of each

The F2 phenotypic ratio can be obtained very

easily by the method of combined monohybrid ratios, as in Fig.
46.

It is customary to write this ratio 27

This F2 phenotypic ratio

is

:

9

:

9

:

9

:

3

:

3

:

3

:

1.

obtained whether the cross of the

Pi generation is AA BB CC X eta bb cc or AA BB cc X aa bb CC
or AA bb CC X aaBB cc or aaBB CC X AA bb cc and irrespective of which genotype

is

the male and which

is

the female in

each of these four crosses.

The checkerboard method

of determining the F2

is

just as

Dihybrids, Trihyhrids, and Poly hybrids

138
correct

for

a trihybrid as for a dihybrid, but

more complicated and correspondingly less useful.

is

necessarily

In the hypo-

Fi from any of the combinations of different genotypes will be Aa Bb Cc. Each gamete will
contain three genes, one from each pair of alleles (plus, of course,
thetical case just mentioned, the

one of each of all the thousands more or less of pairs of genes
P.:

AABBCC X aabbcc

F,:

AaBbCc

F,:

Polyhybrids
"checkerboard," as illustrated

ir;

Fig.

139
47.

When the various

types of the F2 are tabulated, the phenotypic and genotypic
ratios are:

Genotypic:

9ABc

27ABC

Phenotypic:

MbC

9a5C

3.46c

3oSc

3abC

lahc

AA BB CC lAABBcc lAAbbCC laaBBCC lAAbbcc laaBBcc laabbCC laabbcc
AA BB Cc 2 AA Bb cc 2AAbbCc 2 aa BB Cc 2 Aabb cc 2aa Bb cc 2 aa bb Cc
2AABbCC 2AaBBcc 2AabbCC 2aaBbCC
2 Aa BB CC 4 Aa Bb cc 4 Aa bbCc iaa Bb Cc
4 AA Bb Cc
1

2

4Aa BBCc
4Aa Bb CC
8Aa Bb Cc

from the above that each kind of homozygote is represented once; each genotype which is heterozygous
for one pair of genes, as AA BB Cc, AA Bb cc, aa bb Cc, is repIt is readily seen

resented twice; each double heterozygote, as AA Bb Cc, Aa Bb cc,
is

represented four times; and 8 individuals out of the 64 are

heterozygous for all three genes.

This is easily understandable.

A plant which would be genotypically AA BB Cc, getting the C
gene from the motlier and the c gene from the father, would be
the same as one which received c on the female side and C on the
male, for once the two alleles get together in one plant or animal

any

difference with respect to their parentage

is

lost.

There-

fore, the two types, AA BB Cc and AA BB cC, would be classed
together. A double heterozygote would have two such pairs, so

there would be four individuals of each double heterozygote; the

would have three pairs, and there would be
eight combinations of these which would be identical.

triple heterozygote

Testcross.

When an Fi plant or animal, heterozygous for

three pairs of genes, is crossed with a triple recessive, eight types
of offspring are
47.

The

produced in equal numbers, as shown in Fig.

testcross

from a trihybrid

is,

therefore,

1:1:1:

1:1:1:1:1.
Polyhybrids
Plants and animals that have more than three pairs of chro-

mosomes may naturally have more than three pairs of genes
which show independent assortment. Since in Drosophila melanogaster there are four pairs of chromosomes, four pairs of

genes could show independent assortment, although one pair

would be located in the sex chromosome.

In maize, ten pairs

Dihybrids, Trihyhrids, and Poly hybrids

140

segregate independently as maize has twenty

of genes could

somatic chromosomes.

When two plants or animals differ by

more than three pairs of genes, the Fq phenotypic and genotypic
ratios are correspondingly more complicated than for a trihybrid.

Phenotypic ratios up to a tetrahybrid are:

Monohybrid

3:1

Dihybrid
Trihybrid
Tetrahybrid

9:3:3:1
27:9:9:9:3:3:3:1
81

:

27

:

27

:

27

27

:

:

9

:

9

:

9

:

9

:

9

:

9

:

3

:

3

:

3

:

3

:

1

When the Fi is heterozygous for more than three pairs of
genes, the F2 ratios

become very large.

practical genetic problems,

such complicated ratios.

it

is

Fortunately, in solving

rarely necessary to deal with

Polyhybrids are interesting algebra-

ically, since they show that phenotypic ratios involving a number

chromosomes can be obtained by applying
b)", where
the binomial theorem, expanding the binomial (3a
of genes in different

+

the exponent of a represents the number of dominant genes in a

number of recessives, and n the
number of heterozygous genes in the parent. The Fo can thus
be determined for any number of heterozygous pairs of genes on

term, the exponent of b the

separate chromosomes.

Heterozygous Populations in Man

From considering the complicated ratios involved in polyhywe learn the im-

brids involving four and more pairs of genes,

portant fact of the great diversity resulting from self-fertiliz-

heterozygous for a large number of genes.
This great diversity is especially important in studying inheriting a plant that

is

ance in human beings.

People are frequently encountered who

"do not believe in genetics" because children often differ greatly

from either or both their parents. When the facts are considered, such divergence from the parents should be expected as
well as considerable variation among brothers and sisters, for
there are twenty-four pairs of chromosomes in man and a large

number of genes in human beings are in a heterozygous condition.
As most individuals are heterozygous for a great many genes
considerable diversity should be exhibited in their children.

A plant or animal heterozygous for one pair of alleles, when
self- fertilized,

or

two individuals heterozygous

for

the

same

Heterozygous Populations in Plants
pair of genes,

141

when crossed, should produce two types of off-

spring phenotypically.

When the organism is a dihybrid, four
For a polyhybrid heterozygous

kinds of offspring should result.

for n pairs of genes, the number of kinds of offspring should be

two people heterozygous for the same pair of genes in
each of man's 24 chromosome pairs should mate, they could
produce 2-^ or 16,777,216 different kinds of offspring. There is
no wonder, therefore, that children do not look exactly like one
2^^.

If

parent.
in a

The possibilities for diversity among offspring are great

population as heterozygous as that of human beings.

Heterozygous Populations in Plants

Many plants and animals also are highly heterozygous and
produce a wealth of different types of offspring.
For that
reason, plant breeders often have to resort to vegetative propagation in order to maintain a certain type.

Let us suppose that

a hybridizer crosses two different varieties of apples and obtains

among the offspring one plant that is a superior type of apple in
every respect. He naturally wishes to propagate this new variety

and to sell it commercially.

Because the parents differed

by many

genes, however, this new variety would be highly
heterozygous. Therefore, the offspring which it would produce

from seed would show great variation; probably only a very
few out of a very large number of plants would be sufficiently
like the

too,

heterozygous parent to be worth raising.

would undoubtedly

fail to

be heterozygous for a number of genes.

After many generations,

he were still living, would perhaps succeed in

the hybridizer,

if

establishing

true-breeding strain

a

These plants,

breed true for they would also

of

this

excellent

variety,

but at a tremendous cost in labor and acreage that could be

devoted to other purposes.

Rather than try to establish such a true-breeding strain, he
would reproduce this desirable apple vegetatively, by taking
buds and grafting them on to stocks of inferior types. Since
the branches which developed from the bud would be like the
tree from which the buds were taken, they would produce the
same kind of apples that were found on this superior plant.
Those branches would be highly heterozygous and would not
breed true any more than the original plant. They would produce superior fruit, however, and that is all that would be re-

Dihybrids, Trihybrids, and Polyhybrids

142
quired

Vegetative propagation

of them.

used exclusively

is

commercial purposes whenever the plants are highly heterozygous and whenever they are the kinds of plants that can be
reproduced vegetatively. Because they notoriously fail to breed
true, vegetative reproduction is used to propagate many of our
ornamental trees, all our important fruit crops, potatoes, some
for

nut trees, and some forest trees.
The number of F2 phenotypes, when dominance
can be expressed by

2'^,

is

complete,

where n represents the number of genes

that are heterozygous in the Fi and consequently the number of

genes by which the two homozygous parents
these Fi plants would produce

2"'

differ.

Similarly,

gametes, and the number of

and phenotypes from a testcross would also
be 2". The number of genotypes in the F2, and the number of
F2 phenotypes if dominance were not complete for any of the
genes involved would be S'*. The number of combinations of Fi
gametes, although not all of them different, would be 4", and,
similarly, the smallest possible number of F2 individuals which
would theoretically yield all the genotypes would be 4^*.
different genotypes

Goodness of Fit
Since trihybrid and polyhybrid ratios involve more than two
terms, the best method of determining goodness of fit is the one

used for dihybrids, except, of course, the number of degrees of

freedom is different.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
As shown by Mendel, in the garden pea, round seeds [W] are

1.

dominant over wrinkled (w) and tall plant (D) is dominant over dwarf
{d). What are the genotypes and phenotypes of the Fi and F2 from
the cross
2.

cross
3.

WW DD X ww dd?

What are the genotypes and phenotypes of the Fi and F2 from the

WW DD X WW ddl
What are the genotypes and phenotypes of the offspring of the

two following crosses:
4.

A man crossed a round-seeded, dwarf pea with a wrinkled-seeded,
In the F2 he got 219 round, tall

tall.

tall

WW Dd X ww dd and Ww dd X ww Dd?

:

24 wrinkled, dwarf.

:

77 round, dwarf

Determine x^ and from

it

:

80 wrinkled,

decide whether

these two characters were showing independent assortment.
5.

A cross between a round tall plant and a round dwarf gave 121

round,

tall

:

124 round, dwarf

:

42 wrinkled,

What are the genotypes of the parents?

tall

:

37 wrinkled, dwarf.

Calculate goodness of fit by x^-

Questions and Problems

143

In Drosophila, gray body (E) is dominant over ebony (e) and red

6.

eye {Ca) over claret (ca).

A cross between a heterozygous gray red and

an ebony claret gave 108 graj^ red

:

47 gray claret

:

41 ebony red

Calculate x" and determine goodness of fit to a 1

ebony claret.

:

1

104

:

1

:

:

1

ratio.
If

7.

what does it signify?

X- in question 6 is too large,

How can

you explain the results obtained?

A produces elongated, pointed primary leaf lobes,
whereas a produces blunt, shorter primary lobes; B divides the leaf by
In Capsella,

8.

deep sinuses, usually reaching nearly or quite to the midrib, whereas b

An AA BB plant is crossed with an aa bb

produces only shallow sinuses.

What are the genotypes and phenotypes of the Fi and F2 and

plant.

of the backcross of the Fi to the double recessive?

In Capsella, AB plants are known as heteris, Ab as tenuis, aB as

9.

rhomboidea, and ab as simplex.

What are the phenotypes of the Fi and

F2 of the following crosses: heteris, homozygous for both genes X tenuis,

homozygous for A; homozygous heteris X homozygous rhomboidea;
homozygous tenuis X simplex; homozygous rhomboidea X simplex?

What are the genotypes of the offspring of the following Capsella

10.

crosses:

AAbbXAABb; aaBbxAabb; AAbbXaaBB; AABbX

AaBb?
In Drosophila melanogaster, black body {bl) is recessive to gray
and spineless (ss) is recessive to spined (Ss). If a homozygous
black spineless is mated with a homozygous gray spined, what are the
genotypes and phenotypes of the Fi and F2?
12. What are the genotypes and phenotypes of the backcross of the
Fi of question 11 to each parent and of the testcross of the Fi to a
11.

{Bl)

black spineless fly?

In Drosophila, normal wing (Vg) is dominant to vestigial (vg) and

13.

red eye (P)

is

What are the genotypes of flies

dominant to pink (p).

which produce the following types of offspring when crossed: (a) 83
normal red 30 normal pink 28 vestigial red 9 vestigial pink; (6)
:

:

167 normal red

pink

:

in

:

:

:

53 normal pink;

114 vestigial red

normal pink
red

:

:

:

110 vestigial pink;

71 vestigial red

:

156 normal red

:

59 normal

109 vestigial pink; (d) 310 normal red

105 vestigial red

24 normal pink

(c)

:

(c)

27 vestigial pink?

:

318

68 normal
Calculate x^

each part of this problem.

In Drosophila, white eye (w) is recessive to red (T^) and is in
the sex chromosome; vestigial wing (vg) is recessive to normal (Vg)
14.

and is in an autosome.

WW

What are the genotypes and phenotypes of
VgVg X wY vgvg;
ww vgvg X WY VgVg?

and F2 from the following crosses:
vgvg X wY VgVg
irw VgVg X WY vgvg;

the Fi

;

WW

Dihybrids, Trihybrids, and Polyhybrids

144
15.

In soybeans, broad leaf is incompletely dominant to narrow; the

heterozygote is intermediate.
is

What

Purple flower is dominant to white.

the phenotypic F2 ratio if a broad-leaved plant which is homozygous

for purple flowers is crossed with a narrow-leaved, white-flowered plant ?

What would be the offspring of a cross between the Fi and a narrowleaved, white-flowered plant; of a cross between the Fi and an intermediate-leaved, white-flowered plant; of a broad-leaved plant that was
homozygous for red flow-ers?
16. In soybeans, how would a breeder obtain true-breeding races
of intermediate-leaved, white-

of broad-leaved, white-flowered plants;

flowered plants; of narrow-leaved, white-flowered plants?

Assume that

he started with the two plants in question.

The statement is made that if dominance is incomplete for each

17.

chromosomes, the phenotypic

of two pairs of genes that are in different

ratio in the F2 is the same as the genotypic.

Why should this be true?

18.

In Capsella, various F2 seeds are sown to produce an F3 genera-

tion.

What would be the genotypes of the F2 plants that produced F3

families that segregated as follows:

tenuis; (c)

all

simplex; (d) 3 heteris

simplex; (g) 9 heteris
(/)
1 simplex?
plex; (h) 3 rhomboidea
3 tenuis

:

1

3 heteris

(a)
:

:

:

1

rhomboidea;

1

3 tenuis

:

tenuis;

(b)

(e)

heteris;

all

3 rhomboidea

:

1

all

sim-

:

A BlblSsss fly (as in question 12) is testcrossed with the double

19.

recessive.

The offspring are selfed. What are the phenotypes from each

of the selfed offspring?
20. In Drosophila melanogaster, the gene for purple eye ipr) is reces-

chromosome II; the gene for hairless
is in chromo{H)
some IV. What are the genotypes and phenotypes of the Fi and F2
from the cross PrPr HH BtBt X prpr hh btbt ?
21. What are the genotypes and phenotypes from a backcross of the

sive to the gene for red and is in

is in chromosome III, and the gene for bent wing {bt)

Fi in question 20 to the triple recessive?
22.

In the F2 of the cross, AA BE CC

DD EE X aa bb cc dd ee, what

proportion will be homozygous for all the dominant genes?

What pro-

portion will be phenotypically dominant for all the genes?
23.

What are the gametes produced by each of the following?

Aa Bb CC dd Ee
Aa Bb CC Dd ee
aa Bb cc DD ee
aa bb cc DD EE
aa BB Cc Dd Ee

Questions and Problems
24.

(a)

145

Assume that an organism is heterozygous for six pairs of genes,

How many different kinds of gametes does it produce?

How
(c) How

(6)

many different kinds of phenotypes are produced on selfing?
many different kinds of individuals are found in the offspring of the testcross of that organism to

an organism recessive for all six genes?

(d)

How many different kinds of genotypes are produced if this organism is
selfed?

(e)

What is the smallest theoretical number of individuals re-

quired to get an individual recessive for all six genes if this organism is
selfed ?

A and B determine leaf shapes (see problem 8)

25. In Capsella, genes

gene v produces fasciated stems and is recessive to V, the gene for nonfasciated stems.

What are the phenotypes of the offspring from the fol-

lowing crosses?

AA Bbvv X aa bb VV
Aa Bb VV X aa bb vv

Aa bb VV X aa Bb Vv
26.

What are the phenotypes of the F^ from the following crosses

(assume all parents to be homozygous)
tenuis nonfasciated
heteris nonfasciated

tenuis fasciated
tenuis fasciated

X rhomboidea fasciated
X simplex fasciated

X rhomboidea nonfasciated
X simplex nonfasciated.

AA BB CC was crossed with aa bb cc. The F2 segregated
into bo7ABC
189^5c imAbC ISiaBC 58Abc maBc 62abC
27. Plant

:

:

:

:

:

Calculate x^ and the probability that this

19abc.

is

:

:

a true trihybrid

ratio.

28.

In Nemesia strumosa, colored (C)

orange (0)
is

is

dominant to white

recessive to no mark

(M).

is

dominant to

colorless

A family of plants of unknown parentage

produced the following plants: 91 colored, orange, nonmarked
ored, orange, marked

marked

:

31

:

29 colored, white, nonmarked

noncolored,

(c),

(0), and mark {m} on the lower lip

orange,

nonmarked

:

28

:

:

88 col-

30 colored, white,

noncolored,

white,

What are the genotypes of the parents?
29. What are the offspring of the following crosses (see question 28

marked.

Mm X CC Oo mm
Cc Oo Mm X cc 00 mm
Cc Oo Mm X cc 00 Mm
Cc Oo

j

?

146

Dihyhrids, Trihybrids, and Polyhybrids

Write all the gametes from a plant whose genotype is Aa Bb Cc
Dd Ee Ff Gg. If it were testcrossed to the recessive, what would be the
30.

relation of the

number of kinds of offspring to the number of kinds of

gametes you have listed?
31.

Two plants are crossed that are heterozygous for fifteen genes.

What percentage of the offspring would be expected to have nine dominant and six recessive characters?

Chapter 10

THE GENETIC DISTRIBUTION OF TWO PAIRS OF
GENES ON ONE PAIR OF CHROMOSOMES
The extensive work of the late T. H. ^Morgan and his students
and of others who have worked on Drosophila melanogaster has
resulted in the discovery of over five hundred different genes
in that small organism.

Since there are only four pairs of chro-

must be many more than one
a fly is heterozygous for two
gene on each chromosome.
pairs of genes on two different chromosomes, the two alleles
on one pair of chromosomes will segregate independently of those
on the other pair, thus fulfilling Mendel's second law. If the
genes are on the same chromosome, should they also show independent assortment? On chromosome II are found the genes
c, curved, and sp, speck, causing a dark spot in the axil of the
wing. A fly that is homozygous for C and Sp will have one C
and one *Sp gene on each of its second chromosomes, w^hereas a
double recessive fly will have one c and one sp gene on each.
The Fi fly wdll have one chromosome with C and Sp and an
homologous chromosome with c and sj).
When meiosis takes place in the Fi flies, the two chromosomes
will separate from one another.
Some germ cells will have a
chromosome with both C and <Sp and others will have one with
both c and sp. If these genes had been on separate chromosomes,
four types of gametes, C Sp, C sp, c Sp, and c sp, would have
been produced by the Fi in equal 7iumbers. Since they are on
the same chromosome, however, the two genes, such as C and Sp
or c and sp, that entered a fly from the same parent must always
enter the same gamete, unless, of course, the chromosomes should
break.
Barring any breakage of chromosomes or chromatids,
these two genes always remain together as they pass from one
generation to another. This phenomenon is called linkage.

mosomes in this

species, there

If

147

Linkage and Crossing Over

148

Gene Symbols and Linkage
In the symbolic method of denoting genes which geneticists
have adopted to simplify their writing are ways of indicating

Some geneticists indicate the two homologous chromosomes by two horizontal lines, with the genes on one chromolinkage.

some above one line and those on the other chromosome below
the other line. More recently, this symbol has been simplified

by merging the lines into one. It is also written all on one line
by using a slanting rather than horizontal line. The two pairs
of genes in the heterozygote, by these methods, would be indicated as:

CSp
=^=

.

.

CSp

or simply

or

csp

csp

C bp / c sp

The last two methods are widely used by Drosophila geneticists
today and the}^ are also used by students of other organisms. As
the Drosophila geneticist usually indicates the wild-type gene bj^ a

+ sign, the linkage symbols can be still further simplified to read
4- +
but often even the + sign is omitted, the symbol being
;

c sp

written,

.

Many geneticists enclose the two genes of one

c sp

chromosome

in

parentheses.

By this method of notation the

heterozygote in this case would be indicated as (CSp) (csp).
still

A

further method indicates linked genes as C Sp c sp.

Crossing Over

was shown in Chapter 4 that when two homologous chromosomes have paired at pachytene each "splits" into two chromatids.
The two chromatids of one chromosome are twisted
about the two chromatids from the homologous chromosome,
and at various places one chromatid from each homologue
breaks.
The broken ends of one chromatid join up with the
broken ends of the other, forming new associations and producing the cross-shaped chiasmata which are seen at diplotene.
It has just been pointed out that C and Sp always remain
It

together in the formation of the Fi gametes in the above cross

and that c and sp do likewise unless the chromosomes or chromatids should break. Such a break would enable the two linked

Crossing Over

149

genes to become separated, and the realignment of segments from

would allow C and sp and c and Sp to be
Tliis breakage and realignment of
the chromatids would have no significance in regard to the behavior of two given linked genes unless they happened to occur
in a region of the chromatids between them.
Usually such a
break may occur at any place in a chromatid, except possibly
near the centromere, and therefore may occur between the two
different chromatids

together in some gametes.

linked genes in a certain percentage of the cases.

If

we can

assume, with reservations, that it can occur at random at any
place on the chromosome, it must naturally occur more frequently between genes whose loci are far apart on a chromosome

than between loci that are close together.

If a

break with sub-

sequent chiasma occurs between two chromatids in the region

between two known genes, of the four gametes resulting from
the mother cell in which the break occurs, two will have unbroken chromatids and the other two will have new chromatids

and will therefore show a new combination of genes. If an Fi
fly has the genes (C Sp) from one parent and {c sp) from the
other, and if one break occurs between the C and Sp loci in one
primary oocyte, of the four eggs and polar bodies that result,
two will be {C Sp) and (csp), in other words parental types,
and the other two will be (C sp) and (c Sp) and will be nonparental types or recombinations (Fig. 48). However, in 100
primary oocytes, a break between those genes would not be
expected in every case unless the genes were far apart.
The
genes C and Sp are actually not so far apart. Every oocyte that
did not have a break would produce one egg and three polar
bodies, all of which would be of the parental types, whereas each
oocyte that had one break would produce two parental and
two nonparental types of eggs and polar bodies. The polar bodies are not functional, of course, but if 100 oocytes had no
break between these loci, they would produce 50 eggs of the
paternal type and 50 of the maternal.
Of the 100 eggs from
the 100 oocytes in which a break occurred, 25 would be paternal
and 25 maternal; the other 50 eggs would be nonparental types.
Since there are some oocytes in which a break did not occur between C and Sp, there would be more parental than nonparental
types of gametes.

Linkage and Crossing Over

150
Testcross.

If

an Fi

female whose

genetic

constitution

is

C Sp / csp is testcrossed with a c sp / c sp male, will all the
offspring be like the parental
into a

generation, will they segregate

1:1:1:1 ratio as in independent assortment, or will

Such a question can best be
answered by carrying out an experiment. Fortunately, we do
not have to do so as such experiments have been carried out a
they give some other result?

c-

Crossing Over
0.7

C Sp

:

C sp

0.3

0.3 c Sp

:

must have been in the same ratio

gametes

the

0.7 c sp,

:

151
the

of

Fi

Obviously, then,

(Fig. 49a).

between the loci of c and sp in every

a crossover did not occur

We may well ask the question, "In how many

primary oocyte.
did it occur?"

Fi Female

Gametes; 0.35

C

c

c

Sp

sp

sp

C
Sp- 0.35 sp-

C
Offspring:

0.35

Recessive Male

Cc
sp- 0.15'Sp-

c

-c

-

all

C--

c

sp- - sp 0.15 sp

^-^^

-

Recessive
Fi

Female

Gametes:

Offspring:

c

-c

c

C

c

fsp

Sp

sp

-

C

-c

^^^sp-

Sp

sp

C

c

c

c

sp

sp

-

(CSp/csp) with

-sp

-

c

-sp

Crosses involving linked genes in Drosophila.

a heterozygous female

-c

Male

c

,,

-

sp 0.15 Sp

sp

Spi

Fig. 49.

sp-

Nonparental or
Crossover Types

Parental or
Noncrossover Types

Parents:

sp

c

0.15,

Sp- -sp

c

-

A cross of

(a)

male (csp/csp).
Crossing over in the female produces four types of gametes in the ratio of
7C Sp SC sp ScSp 7 c sp. Four types of offspring result 0.35 C Sp
0.15 Csp
0.15 cSp
0.35 csp.
(6) A cross between a recessive female and
a heterozygous male. Because no crossing over occurs in the male, only two
kinds of gametes are produced and the offspring are in the ratio 0.5 C Sp
:

:

:

:

a

recessive

:

:

:

:

0.5 c sp.

Linkage and Crossing Over

152

took place between whole chromosomes, as
was once thought, and not between chromatids, a break in the
If crossing over

chromosomes between the two loci in 30 per cent of the primary
oocytes would produce 30 per cent of crossover gametes and 70
per cent of gametes of the parental types. As crossing over takes
place only between two out of four chromatids, however, each
nonparental t^^pe must have resulted from an oocyte that produced two nonparental and also two parental gametes. Crossing
over must therefore have taken place between chromatids in 60
per cent of the oocytes.

Let us assume for purposes of illustration that there were
originally 50 primary oocytes and that crossing over occurred
Each oocyte formed four eggs. To simplify the
in 30 of them.
problem, it is assumed here that the four cells of each primary
oocyte are functional.

The 20 oocytes that

did not have a

crossover between the c and sp loci would form 80 parental-type

gametes.

The 30 oocytes that had a crossover would produce

60 crossover and 60 noncrossover gametes, because only two

chromatids from every such oocyte crossed over.

Out

of the

200 gametes that were produced from the original 50 oocytes,
only 60 or 30 per cent would be crossover types. A break of

two chromatids followed by a fusion of the broken ends produces
a chiasma. The 20 oocytes that had no break between c and
sp would have no chiasmata in that region, but each of the other
30 oocytes would have one chiasma between those two loci.
Therefore, 60 per cent of the oocytes would have one chiasma in
that region but only 30 per cent of the gametes would be of the
nonparental or crossover type (Fig. 50). For every 2 per cent
of the oocytes that have a chiasma between two given genes,
only 1 per cent of the eggs would show genetic crossing over
between these genes.
Crossing Over in Male Drosophila. When a cross between a
c sp / c sp female and an Fi male {C Sp / c sp) is made, a rather
unique phenomenon is encountered. Half the offspring will be
C Sp and the other half will be c sp, and there will be no
crossover types (Fig. 496).

vious cross.

This

is

the reciprocal of the pre-

All the gametes of this Fi male are parental types

because no breaking and realignment of chromatids at pachytene and no chiasmata are formed in the male Drosophila. Unless

such breaks and chiasmata occur, no crossover types of

Crossing Over

153

30

Total

crossovers

30

70 CSp
70 c sp
SO C sp

SO cSp

Gametes resulting if a chiasma forms between c and sp in 60
Starting with 50 oocytes, 20 would have no
chiasma between c and sp and would therefore produce 80 noncrossover
gametes. Thirty oocytes would have a chiasma and would produce 60
crossover and 60 noncrossover gametes. Thus, 60 out of the 200 gametes
would be of the crossover type, and we should say that there was 30 per
Fig. 50.

per cent of the oocytes.

cent crossing over.

To simplify the problem, all products of meiosis are

treated as functional, and polar body formation is disregarded.

Linkage and Crossing Over

154

no crossing over in the
and Y chromoDrosophila male. (In the inert regions of the
somes, near the centromere, two chiasmata have been said to
In spite of this lack of chiasma formation in the male,
form.)
pairing at metaphase appears more or less normal, and the
There

gamete can be produced.

is

X

chromosomes separate
poles.

a

in

regular

manner

to

the

opposite

This separation, which is not the result of normal meiotic

processes, is discussed further in Chapter 13.

Such regular fail-

ure of chiasma formation in one sex is of very limited occurrence,

but is usual in dipteran males and in females of the silkworm.
In all such animals, this failure occurs in the heterogametic sex.

Linkage and crossing over are of
universal occurrence, but in most organisms crossing over is
approximately the same in both sexes. In the third chromoCrossing Over in Plants.

some of maize, gene a (anthocyanin-1) produces green plants,
colorless aleurone and brown pericarp, and its dominant allele,
Gene Rg
A, produces anthocyanin pigments in these regions.
(ragged leaf), on the same chromosome, produces a plant with
torn and split leaves; the homozygous RgRg plant is very weak,
but the heterozygote

is

perfectly healthy.

A plant which was heterozygous for both pairs of genes and
whose genetic constitution was Rg A / rg a was testcrossed to a
rg a / rg a plant

by Brink and Senn.

The offspring were:

Noncrossovers

Observed frequencies
Expected if 1 1 1
:

:

:

1

Crossovers

A

Rg A

rg a

Rg a

rg

160

142
130

103

115

130

130

130

Obviously, the offspring did not fall into a typical testcross
ratio as there were too many parental and too few nonparental

The percentage of crossover types was 41.9. As crossing
over in maize is the same in both sexes, it should not matter
whether the Fi plant was used as the male or as the female.

types.

Coupling and Repulsion.
ment,

it

In discussing independent assort-

was pointed out that the Fo and testcross ratios are

the same whether the original cross is AA BB

X cia bb or AA bb

on the same chromosome? Let us examine a cross involving the anthocyanin-1
and ragged leaf genes of maize made by Brink (reported by

X aa BB.

Is this also true if the genes are

Emerson, Beadle, and Fraser) in which one parent was rg A / rg A

Crossing Over

155

and the other was Rg a / Rg a, and let us compare it with the
The Fi was obviously
one by Brink and Senn just cited.
Rg a / rg A. It was phenotypically like the Fi from Brink and
Senn's cross and was genotypically the same to the extent that
it had the same genes, but the arrangement of the genes on the
two chromosomes was different. In Brink and Senn's cross,
the genes of the Fi were linked in a combination of Rg A / rg a

whereas in Brink's they were Rg a / rg A.
difference?

Does this make any

When Brink's Fi was backcrossed to the recessive,

rg a / rg a, the offspring were:
Noncrossovers

Observed frequencies
Expected if 1 1 1
:

:

:

1

Crossovers

Rg a

rg

A

Rg A

rg a

616
577

724
577

480
577

488
577

Again, the percentage of crossover or recombination types was
41.9,

but now the Rg A and rg a plants are the recombination

types whereas in the other cross they were the parental types:

and the rg A and Rg a plants now are the parental types whereas
they previously were nonparental types. In other words, when
two pairs of alleles are on separate chromosomes, the ratio obtained by backcrossing the Fi to the double recessive is exactly
the same whether the parents of the Fi were homozygous for
the two dominants and the two recessives, or whether each was
homozygous for one dominant and one recessive; but when the
two alleles are on the same chromosome, and therefore show
linkage, the results are very different.

When genes A and B are linked, and when the original cross
is between A B / A B and ah / ah, the AB and ah types are more
numerous in the testcross than the Ah and aB types; but when

\^Ah/Ahy^aB/aB, the .46 and aB types
However, it
are more numerous than the AB and ah types.

the original cross

must be noted that the ^percentage of recomhinations is the same
no matter ivhich way the cross is made. The only difference
is

that the parental types in the one cross are the crossover types

in the other.

Through long usage,

it

is

customary to speak of the cross

AB/ABy^ah/ah as being in the coupling phase, and the
cross

Ah / Ah y, aB / aB as being in the repulsion phase.

156

Linkage and Crossing Over

These terms have no more significance today than to indicate
the manner in which the genes were combined on the chromosomes of the Fi generation, but they are terms of convenience

and are frequently encountered in genetic hterature. At one time
they referred to concepts which have long been discarded. Genes
of maize in the coupling and repulsion phases are shown in
Fig. 51.

Linkage between colored and shrunken in maize. Left, the
coupling phase resulting from the cross C Sh / c shX c sh / csh and showing a preponderance of colored, nonshrunken and noncolored, shrunken
types. Right, the repulsion phase resulting from the cross C sh/ cShX
csh / csh and showing a preponderance of the colored, shrunken and
noncolored, nonshrunken types. (Photographs by Dr. W. Brooks HamilFig. 51.

ton.)

Crossing Over

157

Crossing Over and the F2.

So far,

only the results of back-

in discussing linked genes,

crossing the Fi to the recessive have been discussed.

This

is

method of determining the percentage of
crossing over between two genes, because the testcross ratio is
exactly the same as the ratio of crossover to noncrossover types
usually the simplest

among the gametes.

It

is

this

gametic ratio that indicates the

percentage of crossing o^^er and therefore the amount of chromatid breakage that occurred at meiosis in the Fi. Sometimes, however, there are practical difficulties in making backcrosses or test-

and it is simpler to raise an F2 by selfing the Fi plants.
What would be the genotypic and phenotypic ratios in the F2
for the genes for ragged leaf and anthocyanin-1 in maize?
crosses,

Obviously the phenotypic ratio could not be 9 3 3 1, for
this ratio would be obtained only if the ratio of the gametes were
The actual gametic ratio, when
1 rg A
1 rg a.
1 Rg A
1 Rg a
0.21 Rg a
the crossover percentage is 42, would be 0.29 Rg A
:

:

:

:

:

:

0.21 rg A

:

:

0.29 rg a

if

the

cross

original

:

was Rg A / Rg A X

and 0.21 Rg A 0.29 Rg a 0.29 rg A 0.21 rg a if the
original cross was in the repulsion phase. The F2 could be determined from a checkerboard in which these gametes were represented in their correct ratio. For simplicity of the arithmetic let
us assume that the crossover percentage is 40 instead of 42. The
F2 from crosses in both the coupling and the repulsion phases is
tabulated in Fig. 52, and it is seen to be different in the two
phases. In each phase the ratio is different from the 9:3:3:1
ratio, as expressed in terms of percentage; and in both the coupling and repulsion phases, the difference is in favor of the parental types.
In the coupling phase, the percentage of Rg A and
7'g a types is respectively 59 and
9 instead of 56.25 and 6.25,
whereas in the repulsion phase the percentage of Rg a and rg A is
rg a/rga,

:

:

:

21 for each type instead of 18.75.

The specific F2

ratios for coupling

and repulsion that were

given in Fig. 52 mil be obtained only if there is 40 per cent crossing over between the two genes in question.

If the percentage is

greater or less than 40 the F2 ratios will be different from those
listed, for

the ratios mil actually differ according to the percent-

age of crossing over.

We often find it advantageous, therefore,

to state the F2 ratio in general terms.
If we let p represent the percentage of crossing

over expressed

160

Linkage and Crossing Over

Complete Linkage and the F2

161

Complete Linkage and the F2

When linkage is complete, the F2 ratios are different from
the 9:3:3:1, and are also different depending on whether
the original cross was made in the coupling or in the repulsion
phase.

In testing to determine whether the gene hullata, bu,

which causes the rosette leaves to be greatly crinkled in the
evening primrose was linked with the gene for old-gold flowers,
Coupling

P,:

F,

VBu
VBu

Linkage and Crossing Over

162

when they enter in the repulsion phase, the Fo ratio becomes
The results which Shull ob-

2VBu:lVbu:lvBu:0vbu.

tained can be interpreted on the basis that these genes are linked

and that they are so completely linked that no crossing over
took place. Actually, as subsequent tests showed, linkage was
not complete, but these genes were so close together that the

chance of a break of chromatids in the region between them
was very small. In a family of only 108 plants, no crossovers
occurred.

Had the family consisted of 10,800 plants, a small

percentage

of

crossover

gametes would

probably have

been

produced.
It is

a rule that

original cross

2:1:1:0.

when

linkage

is

complete and when the

in the repulsion phase,

is

the F2 ratio will

be

This is true when linkage is complete in only one

when it is complete in both, as has been shown

sex as well as

many times in Drosophila.

Let us a^ain consider the curved

in

The gametes of the female Fi fly, if the cross
the repulsion phase, are 0.3 C Sp 0.7 C sp 0.7

0.3 c sp,

complete in the male, the

and speck genes.
w^as
c Sp

made
:

:

but since linkage

is

:

When two
C sp / c Sp flies are mated, the offspring are 2 C Sp 1 C sp
sperm

are

the

in

of

ratio

0.5

C sp

:

0.5 c Sp.

:

:

This principle has been widely used when a new
gene in Drosophila has been discovered to determine with which
1 c Sp

of the

:

c sp.

many known genes this new gene is linked.

Complete Linkage and Multiple Alleles
Although a 2

1

:

:

1

:

ratio

may be obtained in the F2 from

a cross involving completely linked genes in the repulsion phase,

the same ratio will also be found in certain crosses involving

multiple alleles.

Therefore, it is sometimes difficult to determine

whether a particular ratio

is

the result of completely linked

Sometimes further extensive studies
have resulted in the appearance of a few crossovers, thus showgenes or multiple

alleles.

ing that linked genes are involved which are not completely

Sometimes such extensive studies are not
practical and it is impossible to decide from the data available
the cause of the ratios. It is sometimes assumed as a tentative
linked but nearly so.

hypothesis that multiple alleles are the cause if the three types
are merely differences in the

same part

of the

organism but

statistical Tests

163

that complete linkage is the cause if, as in the old gold-bullata
cross,

two widely

different

parts of the plant or animal are

Even this distinction is not
always valid, however, for occasionally members of a series of
affected in the different phenotypes.

multiple alleles affect principally different regions of the or-

ganisms.
Statistical Tests

In Chapter 9 it was shown that x" niay be used to determine

whether an observed ratio could be considered an example of a
9:3:3:1 or other ratio involving more than two terms. If
an observed ratio has a value of x" low enough to be considered
a 9 3 3 1 ratio, we assume that we have independent assortment and that the genes are on separate chromosomes; but if
:

:

:

X" is too large, we must find another explanation.
In their early work on the sweet pea, Bateson

and Punnett
found that purple flowers (B) were dominant over red (6) and
that long pollen grains (L) were dominant to round (I). A
homozygous purple-flowered, round pollen plant when crossed
with one that was homozygous for red flowers and long pollen
gave the results tabulated below (data from Punnett, 1913) x^
;

is calculated on the basis of independent assortment:

/

Linkage and Crossing Over

164

a case of independent assortment, do they tell us what

is the
Unfortunately, the answer is
All we can learn from applying x^ is that we probably do

reason for the peculiar ratio?
no.

not have two genes on separate chromosomes.
AVe must then find another explanation for our unusual reThe student must be given a word of caution here. Just
sults.

any explanation that seems to fit the data will not do except,
of course, as a preliminary hypothesis

abandon.

which we are willing to

The explanation must be consistent with known bio-

logical observations

and should, preferably, be one that can be
Actually, Bateson and Punnett

used to predict future results.

an explanation based on the reduplication of parental
gametes in excess of nonparental. Although it agreed with the
data it was not founded on sound biological facts, and ultimately
it was abandoned in favor of the much more accurate explanation of linkage and crossing over.
Could the x^ method be used to show that Brink's testcross
offered

data did not indicate independent assortment?
late these

Let us retabu-

data and calculate %^.

Observed frequencies
Expected frequencies
d
d Vexpected frequencies

Rg A

Rg a

rg

160

103

115

142

130

130

130

130

30

-27

-15

6 92

5.61

.

x^

1

A

rg a

12
.

73

1.11

= 15.37; n = 3

Again we have three degrees of freedom, and again our value
of x^ is so large that this ratio could be found as the result of
chance alone in less than one per cent of our cases. Again, the

hypothesis of independent assortment must be abandoned.
It was stated previously that there

was 41.9 per cent crossing
over between these two genes. Could the method of x^ be applied
to determine whether this observed ratio was a true example of
the ratio to be expected if there were 41.9 per cent crossing over?

The method is appHcable and is applied just as in the previous
case except that the expected frequencies would be different.

Since our total population included 520 plants, the expected fre-

quency of each crossover class (20.45 per cent of 520) would be
108.94, whereas the expected frequency of each parental class
(29.55 per cent of 520) would be 151.06.

Statistical Tests

Observed frequencies
Expected frequencies
d

165

RgA

Rg a

rgA

160
151.06

103

115

142

108.94

108.94
6.06
0.34

151.06
9.06
0.54

8.94
0.53

d^/expected frequencies

-5.94
0.32
/2

rga

_ 1.75; n = 3

When we compare our observed ratio with an expected ratio
on the basis of 41.9 per cent crossing over, x^ = 1-73. Since
there are four terms in the ratio

we still have three degrees of

freedom, and on that basis x^ tells us that we could expect such
a ratio on the basis of chance alone in over 50 per cent of
similar

famiUes.

Obviously, the hypothesis

41.9 per cent crossing over

is

linkage

of

with

highly probable.

The standard error can also be used to determine whether a
given ratio deviates less from one based on independent assort-

ment or from one based on linkage. Let us illustrate this method
with some data from Wright's work on the guinea pig. An animal homozygous for black and for rough fur {BB RR) was
crossed with one with brown and smooth fur (bbrr).
The Fi
was testcrossed to the recessive. If there is linkage, the BR and
br phenotypes are the parental types and the Br and bR animals
would represent crossovers. Let us combine the two parental
types and also the (wo possible crossover types. If there is no
linkage, the parental and nonparental types should be in the
1
ratio of 1
1, but if there is linkage, the ratio would not be 1
and would vary with the strength of the linkage. Therefore, the
observed combined ratio is tested against a 1 1 ratio. The
:

:

:

results are:

BR hr Br bR
88

96

98

93

<r

= ^ /184J91 ^ V93.72 = 9.68

\
Observed
Expected
Deviation

184

191

187.5

187.5
3.5

—3.5

d

3.5

375

= 0.36

9.68

The deviation of the observed ratio from a 1
0.36 times the standard error.

well

:

1 ratio is only

Therefore, this ratio agrees very

with expectation based on independent assortment, and

there is no evidence to support the idea of linkage.

Linkage and Crossing Over

166

What is the result of applying this method to Brink's data?
Let us calculate the deviation and standard error.

Observed

Rg A

rg a

Rg a

rg

160

142

103

115

A

Factors Influencing Crossing Over

167

centage differs for different pairs of genes because the amount

which breaks
chromatids occur between the two genes; this frequency

of crossing over depends on the frequency with
in the

apart on the chromatids.

upon the distance these genes are
Assuming for the present that breaks

can

occur

at

may

say that the farther two genes are apart, the more likely,

is

further dependent chiefly

equally

easily

all

points

on a chromatid, we

as the result of chance, breaks will occur between them.

As two

genes are normally always the same distance apart on a chro-

mosome, the chance that a break can occur between them

is

always the same, and, therefore, the percentage of recombinaThe percentage of crossovers between
any two pairs of genes can never be stated until proper experi-

tions is always t?ie same.

ments have been carried out. Once the experiments have been
made, the amount of crossing over between those genes can be
predicted, but there
will be before

it

is

is

no way of telling what that percentage

tested experimentally.

Factors Influencing Crossing Over

The above discussion is based upon the consideration that the
experiments are carried out under the same conditions, for the
ease with which breaks can occur in the chromatids is influenced

by the environment.

Heat, X-radiation, and some chemicals

may produce striking differences in the percentage of recombinations,

usually having the effect of increasing the percentage.

Plough demonstrated that when Drosophila females are raised
at high temperatures, the percentage of crossovers

over that obtained

temperature.

is

increased

when the flies are reared at ordinary room

Strangely enough, however, low temperatures also

produce an increased percentage of crossover types as com-

pared with ordinary, medium temperatures.
Crossing over can be affected by internal as well as external
factors.

Differences in the percentage of recombinations in the

different sexes

have been mentioned in connection with the male

Drosophila and the female silkworm, but they are frequently
observed also in other organisms, although in them the sex dif-

The age of the individual may also
affect the frequency of crossing over, for Bridges has demonferences are not so great.

strated that, in Drosophila, as the female gets older the percent-

Linkage and Crossing Over

168

age of recombinations tends to increase.

one chromosome

Inversions of a part of

may inhibit crossing over, and anything that

tends to affect normal meiosis will have an effect on crossing
over.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

In the Emily Henderson sweet pea, Bateson and Punnett found

that purple flowers (Bl) were dominant to red {bl)

and elongated pollen
When
was
dominant
to
round
(l)
homozygous
purple long plant
a
(L)
was crossed with a red, round F2 ratios were 177 purple, long 15 purple,
round 15 red, long 49 red, round. Could this be due to independent
assortment? If not, why not? If not, how could this F2 ratio be ac.

:

:

:

counted for?
2.

By figuring the value of x^ in the previous problem, what is the

probability that this is a 9

:

3

:

3

:

1

ratio?

3. If the genes bl and I are linked with 12.5 per cent crossing over,
what would be the percentage of recombinations if the Fi in problem 1
was backcrossed to a bl I / bl I plant?
4. If the genes in problem 1 are linked with 12:5 per cent crossing
over, what would be the Fi gametes and the progeny of a testcross if the
Pi plants were Bll/ Bll and blL/blL? Show by a diagram. Is this
the coupling or the repulsion phase?
5. What would be the ratio in the F2 from selfing the Fi plant of the

previous question?
6. Is the redupHcation hypothesis or the theory of linkage more in
agreement with cytological phenomena ? Which agrees more closely with

our observations on gametogenesis and sporogenesis ?

Why?

Genes A and B are linked with 10 per cent crossing over. It has
been calculated that an average of one chiasma forms between genes B
7.

and C in 20 per cent of the sporocytes. Do more chiasmata form between B and C or between A and B? Why?
8.

In an Fi plant whose genotype is

LV / Iv a chiasma forms be-

tween L and V in 40 per cent of the sporocytes.

If this

plant is test-

crossed to the double recessive, what ratio would be obtained?
9.

Do the ratios obtained as the result of genetic crossing over and

the cytological observation of chiasmata seem to have any direct connection?

How?

If

only one of these phenomena were known, could the

other be inferred on theoretical grounds ?

Would such an inference prove

its existence?

10.

We have pointed out on many occasions that the genes are located

on the chromosomes.

This was not always known.

Do you think that

the discovery of linkage and of chiasmata might have helped to prove

the connection between genes and chromosomes?

Explain.

Questions and Problems

169

Assume you have found a new gene in Drosophila melanog aster.
Describe in detail how you would demonstrate on which of the chromosomes that gene was located. Would this problem be easier in Droso11.

phila than in most organisms?
12.

In Drosophila melanogaster, sepia eyes (se) are recessive to red

They are on
(.Se), and dichaete hairs (£)) are dominant to normal {d).
chromosome III. If the cross Se D / Se D X se d / se d is made and the
Fi is testcrossed with the double recessive, 15 per cent of the offspring
are recombinations. Hairy body (h) is recessive to hairless. The cross
Se

H / se hX se h / seh shows 0.5 per cent of recombinations.

is

also on the third chromosome.

Gene h
Which genes do you think are farther

apart on the chromosome, Se and D, or >Se and H?
13. If a fly whose

Why?

genotype is se D / Se d (see question 12) is crossed

with another fly of the same genotype, w^hat are the phenotypes of the
offspring?

What are the phenotypes of the offspring if two flies whose

genetic constitution is Se h / se

H are mated?

In the domestic rabbit, yellow fat (y) is recessive to white (Y),
and brown hair and skin pigmentation [b] is recessive to black {B).
14.

W. E. Castle showed that these genes are linked with about 27 per cent
crossing over.

If a

YY bb animal is crossed with a yy BB and the Fi

what is the ratio of the offspring?
15. If two Fi animals from question 14 are mated, what is the ratio
of the phenotypes in the F2? Although the original cross is in the repulsion phase, why is the F2 ratio not 2:1:1:0?
16. The gene for colored (C) in rabbits is dominant over colorless (c).
Genes C and Y (see question 14) are linked with 14 per cent crossing
over. Give the phenotypic ratios from the following crosses:
is

testcrossed to a double recessive,

XCY/cy
CY I cy XCY/cy

c

y / cy

Cy / cY Xc y / cy
Cy I cy Xc Y / cy
17.

In maize, shrunken endosperm {sh)

is

recessive to full (Sh)

and

waxy endosperm (wx) is recessive to nonwaxy (Wx). A ShWx/ shwx
plant was testcrossed with a sh wx / sh wx. The offspring were 142 full,
nonwaxy 63 full, waxy 57 shrunken, nonwaxy 138 shrunken, waxy.
Are these genes on the same or on different chromosomes? If on the
same, what is the percentage of crossing over? What w^ould be the offspring from the cross Sh wx / sh Wx X shwx/ sh wx ?
:

18.

:

:

In maize, colored aleurone (C)

In the cross

C sh / c ShX c sh / c sh

offspring were obtained

:

638 colored,

is

dominant over

(see

question 17)

full

:

colorless

(c).

the following

21,379 colored, shrunken

:

;[70

Linkage and Crossing Over

If these genes are linked,
21,906 colorless, full 672 colorless, shrunken.
the results of
what is the percentage of crossing over? What would be
:

the following crosses?

CSh/ csh xCSh/csh
C Sh / csh X c sh /csh
Csh / cShXCsh / c Sh
c sh / csh

XC sh / cSh

Chapter 11

LOCATING GENES ON CHROMOSOMES
Since there are

many different genes on a chromosome, they

must be arranged in some sort of order. In a number of plants
and animals the exact or approximate places at which many
The work of
of the genes are located have been determined.
locating genes is tedious but not difficult, once the principles of

the technique are understood.

The general method is genetical

and is based upon crossover data. It gives the order in which
the genes occur and their distances apart as well as can be
determined from crossover data, but it does not necessarily give
the exact points at which the genes are found on the chromosomes. This method can be followed by a cytological method
which will locate them much more precisely on the chromosome.
The genetic method is based upon the assumptions that crossdue to breaks in the chromatids, that these breaks
occur purely by chance, and that the possibility that a break

ing over

is

can occur is the same for all parts of a chromosome. If these
hypotheses are true, it follows that the farther apart two genes
are, the greater the chance that a break will occur between

them, and, when tested genetically, the higher the percentage of
crossovers between them.

In practice, the percentages of cross-

ing over between various genes are obtained experimentally, and

from that information the genes are mapped in their order on
the chromosome.

In mapping genes, a unit of distance must be

used, just as in mapping cities or anything else.
in genetics

is

or a unit of

The unit used

one per cent of crossing over, called a map unit

map distance.

percentage of crossing over

As shown in the last chapter, the
influenced by both internal and

is

When the internal conditions are known
they can be discounted, but when they are not known they may
external conditions.

lead to erroneous conclusions.
controlled,

The external conditions can be

and ''normal" or "standard" conditions are used

when obtaining crossover data for the purpose of mapping genes.
171

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

172

two genes give 5 per cent of recombination types when the
is conducted under standard conditions, they are
said to be five map units apart on the chromosome.
If

experiment

Location of Three Genes

A rule widely followed in plotting genes is that if genes A and
B are known to be linked, and if gene C is found by experiment
to be linked with A, it must also be linked with B.

This principle

two linked genes are on the same
chromosome. If A and B are on the same chromosome, and if
A and C are found to be on the same chromosome, naturally B
and C must be on the same chromosome also. This statement
may seem too self-evident to be worth mentioning, but consider
the following situation. If genes A and B are linked with 20 per
cent crossing over, and if the heterozygote is backcrossed to the
double recessive, 80 per cent of the offspring would be parental
types and 20 per cent recombination types. Let us assume now
that A is tested with C and that 30 per cent of the offspring of
Genes A and B
this testcross are found to be recombinations.
chromosome
20 units apart and genes
would then be on the same
A and C would be on the same chromosome 30 units apart. If
they were arranged in the order C-A-B, genes B and C should
therefore be 50 units apart, as shown in this diagram:
follows from the fact that

30

20

B
50

If a C

B / c b organism is now crossed with one that is c 6 / c 6,

there should be 50 per cent of parental types and 50 per cent
of recombinations among the offspring.

a ratio

of

1

CB

:

1

Cb

:

1 c

B

:

1 cb,

It would, however, mean

exactly

the

ratio

that

would be obtained if the genes showed independent assortment.

B and C were investigated, there would be no evidence that they were linked, but B must be linked with C since
If only genes

both are on the same chromosome as A.
In the diagram, the three genes were
crossover percentage between

mapped although the

B and C was not known.

much information must be available to

How

locate three genes in

Double Crossing Over

173

their proper order and with the proper distances between them?

The method is the same as that used in locating the order of
cities.
About a thousand miles west of New York is Chicago.
Another two thousand miles west is Seattle. If the order in
which these cities are located is known and the distance between
any two pairs of them is also known, they can be mapped and
the third distance can readily be determined.
If the order in
which they are located is not known, they could not be plotted
on a map unless all three distances were known. If all that was
known was that Seattle and New York were three thousand
miles apart and that New York and Chicago were one thousand
miles apart, they could not be mapped because Chicago might
be east of New York, in which case it would be four thousand
miles from Seattle. Similarly, to plot three genes on a chromosome map the distances between all three pairs must be known
or the distances between any two pairs plus the order in which
they occur.
In the second chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster, the
genes black (6) and curved (c) show about 27 per cent of crossing over, and curved and vestigial {vg) show about 8.5 per cent.
Historically, the black-curved linkage

is

interesting for

it

was

the first case discovered of linkage in autosomes in Drosophila.
It

happened to be found

first

in the repulsion phase.

These

three genes cannot be plotted without further information as

they might be arranged in either of two ways:

as

27
c

8.5

18.5

vg

vg

b
27

35.5

way, h and vg should show
35.5 per cent of recombinations; but if they were in the second
order, only 18.5 per cent of crossovers should be found between
these two genes. Since the latter figure more nearly accords with
experimental data, the second arrangement is the actual one.
If

they were arranged the

first

Double Crossing Over
So

far,

we have assumed that only one chromatid of each

chromosome breaks between two genes. This statement is true
for any one place in a chromosome and is also true between any

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

172

two genes give 5 per cent of recombination types when the
experiment is conducted under standard conditions, they are
said to be five map units apart on the chromosome.
If

Location of Three Genes

A rule widely followed in plotting genes is that if genes A and

B are known to be linked, and if gene C is found by experiment
to be linked with A, it must also be linked with B.

This principle

follows from the fact that two linked genes are on the same

chromosome. If A and B are on the same chromosome, and if
A and C are found to be on the same chromosome, naturally B
and C must be on the same chromosome also. This statement
may seem too self-evident to be worth mentioning, but consider
the following situation. If genes A and B are linked with 20 per
cent crossing over, and if the heterozygote is backcrossed to the
double recessive, 80 per cent of the offspring would be parental
types and 20 per cent recombination types. Let us assume now
that A is tested with C and that 30 per cent of the offspring of
Genes A and B
this testcross are found to be recombinations.
would then be on the same chromosome 20 units apart and genes

A and C would be on the same chromosome 30 units apart. If
they were arranged in the order C-A-B, genes B and C should
therefore be 50 units apart, as

shown in this diagram:

30

20

50

U a C B / cb organism is now crossed with one that is cb / cb,
there should be 50 per cent of parental types and 50 per cent
of recombinations among the offspring.

a ratio

of

It would, however, mean

lCB:lCb: lcB:lcb, exactly the ratio that

would be obtained if the genes showed independent assortment.
If only genes B and C were investigated, there would be no evidence that they were linked, but B must be linked with C since
both are on the same chromosome as A.
In the diagram, the three genes were mapped although the
crossover percentage between B and C was not known.
How

much information must be available to

locate three genes in

Double Crossing Over

173

their proper order and with the proper distances between them?

The method is the same as that used in locating the order of
cities.
About a thousand miles west of New York is Chicago.
Another two thousand miles west is Seattle. If the order in
which these cities are located is known and the distance between
any two pairs of them is also known, they can be mapped and
the third distance can readily be determined.
If the order in
which they are located is not known, they could not be plotted
on a map unless all three distances were known. If all that was
known was that Seattle and New York were three thousand
miles apart and that New York and Chicago were one thousand
miles apart, they could not be mapped because Chicago might
be east of New York, in which case it would be four thousand
miles from Seattle. Similarly, to plot three genes on a chromosome map the distances between all three pairs must be known
or the distances between any two pairs plus the order in which
they occur.
In the second chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster the
genes black {h) and curved (c) show about 27 per cent of crossing over, and curved and vestigial {vg) show about 8.5 per cent.
,

Historically, the black-curved linkage

is

interesting for

it

was

the first case discovered of linkage in autosomes in Drosophila.
It

happened to be found

first

in the repulsion phase.

These

three genes cannot be plotted without further information as

they might be arranged in either of two ways:
27

6.5

vg

they were arranged the

vg

b
27

35.5

If

8.5

18.5

first

way, h and vg should show

35.5 per cent of recombinations; but if they were in the second
order, only 18.5 per cent of crossovers should be found between

these two genes.

Since the latter figure more nearly accords with

experimental data, the second arrangement is the actual one.

Double Crossing Over
So

far,

we have assumed that only one chromatid of each

chromosome breaks between two genes. This statement is true
for any one place in a chromosome and is also true between any

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

174

two genes that are very

AVhen dealing with
genes that are far apart, we find that sometimes two or even
more breaks may occur between them. When one chiasma is
formed between two genes, the break and fusion of the broken
chromatids need not always occur at the same place, for as the
result of chance it should occur at any place between the two
genes with equal frequency. No matter where the break between two genes occurs, the results are exactly the same, provided that only one such break occurs. If, however, two breaks
and exchanges occur at the same time, and two chiasmata are
formed between the two genes, the results will be different.
There are several ways in which two chiasmata can be formed
betw^een two given loci of a chromosome, as are shown in Chapter 13, depending upon which chromatids are involved in forming each chiasma. If the same two chromatids are involved in
each break so that two reciprocal chiasmata are formed between
genes

close together.

A and C, the four gametes resulting will be exactly the

same as if no chiasma had occurred between these genes (Fig.
55a). It may fairly be asked how it is known when two chiasmata were formed between A and C and when none was formed
The
since the genetic results are the same in each situation.
answer is that there is no way of knowing unless three heterozygous genes, such as A, B, and C, are present and one crossover
occurs between A and B and the second between B and C. Then,
as illustrated in Fig. 55b, the two noncrossover chromatids would
he A B C and ab c and the two crossover chromatids would be
a B c and Ab C. It is only when three such genes are present
that the organisms produced by a gamete in which the two
crossovers occurred can be distinguished from those in which
none occurred.

When two crossovers are formed between two genes, the phenomenon is known as double crossing over, and the a B c and

Ab C gametes are double crossover gametes.

Naturally, double

crossing over does not occur between two given genes as fre-

quently as single crossing over, but

it

does have the effect of

appearing to reduce the amount of crossing over that occurs
between them. For that reason, data involving three genes are

more accurate than data which include the two extreme genes
only; and this is more noticeable the farther apart the two

Double Crossing Over
given genes are.

175

It is well illustrated by data of Rhoades

(summarized by Emerson, Beadle, and Fraser) for some genes in the
fifth chromosome of maize.
Three genes, bm (brown midrib),
pr (red aleurone)

were involved.

and v (virescent or

The

cross

a-

i

c

C-

c

c-

light yellow seedlings),

Bm PrV / Bni PrV x bmpr v / bm

176

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

.

AVhen the testcross phenotypes are tabulated with respect to
the genes bm and pr only, these results are obtained:
Crossovers

Noncrossovers

+ pr (y)—

+ + (+)— 232
bmpr{v)—2S5

bm + (+)—

+ + (v)— 201
bmpr(+) 194

+ pr (+)—
bm + (v)

—

84
77

40

— 46
247

862

22.27 per cent

1109

There are 22.27 per cent of recombinations between these
genes. When genes pr and v only were considered, these results
were obtained:
Crossovers

Noncrossovers

+ +—232

{+)

—235
pr — 84
(bm) + + — 77

(bm) pr V

v

(+)

(+)

+

v— 201

— 194
40
(+) pr + —
(bm) + — 46

(bm) pr +

v

481

628

,,^^
= 43.37
per cent

1109

Thus there are 43.37 per cent of crossover phenotypes when

Now if only genes b7n and v are considered and gene pr is omitted, and only the Bm V, bm v, Bm v,
and bm V phenotypes are tabulated, the results are:

this testcross

is

made.

Crossovers

Noncrossovers

+ (+) +—232
bm (pr) y— 235
+

(pr)

+— 40

bm (+) V

— 46
553

+

(pr)

V—

bm (+) +—
+

(+)

84
77

V— 201

bm (pr) +

— 194
556

= 50.14 per cent

1109

According to this, there should be 49.86 per cent of parental
combinations and 50.14 per cent of recombinations.

If these

three genes are plotted on a chromosome, using one per cent of
crossovers as one map unit, the resulting map appears as:

Double Crossing Over
43.37

22.27

bm

177

pr
50.14

In other words, an independent test of the

hm and v genes

would show them 50.14 units apart, but bm and pr are 22.27
units apart and pr and v are 43.37 units apart.
The laws of
mathematics tell us that the w^hole equals the sum of its parts,
but this case seems to defy the laws of mathematics. Actually,
of course, the discrepancy

is

that the value of 50.14 units be-

tween bm and v is inaccurate.

The distance between two genes,

in map units, equals the percentage of crossing over between
them, but the examination of the testcross phenotypes when just

bm and v are studied does not show the true percentage of crossovers that occurred between these two genes. When all three
genes are considered at a time, some of the phenotypes that were

regarded as parental combinations are seen to be double crossovers.

In determining the percentage of crossovers between bm

and V these double crossovers must be taken into account

for,

instead of representing a parental type, each double crossover
represents two crossovers.

Bearing this fact in mind, we should

revise the determination of the percentage of crossing over as

follows
Noncrossovers

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

178

percentage of crossovers obtained
considered, twice the

when only

hm and v were

percentage of double crossovers in the

cross involving all three genes.

It will give the

same value

65.64 per cent of crossing over or 65.64 map units.

This problem shows that when genes are not close together,
and especially when the distance between them approaches 50
units, double crossing over reduces the single crossovers

between

For this reason, the crossover value never exceeds 50 per cent, even though two genes lie
more than 50 units apart. (In this problem, the value was so

the two genes to about 50 per cent.

slightly over 50 per cent that it can be considered as not exceed-

This problem also shows that, in order to obtain

ing the figure.)

an accurate distance between two genes, (1) the three-point
method, when an intermediate gene is involved, must be used
and (2) genes that are close together should be used in determining map distances rather than genes widely separated on the

chromosome.
In the discussion of two linked genes in the last chapter, it
was pointed out that the original cross may be made in either
the coupling or the repulsion phase, and that although the pa-

combinations and recombinations are different for the
two types of crosses, the percentage of crossing over is the same.
rental

It is also true of a three-point cross.

This cross in maize can

be made in four possible ways and will produce these four possible Fi plants:

hm pr V

'

hm pr +

'

hm +

'

v

and

+ pr

v

No matter in which way the genes entered the Fi, the per cent
of recombinations between bm and pr, between pr and v, and
between bm and v will be the same.
It will be noted that the double crossovers are less frequent

than either of the single crossover classes. It is naturally to be
expected because the chance of one break of chromatids in a
certain region is greater than the chance of two breaks in the

same region.

This fact can be utilized, however, in locating the

genes on the chromosome.

If the order of the genes in the pre-

was not known, the original parental combinations
could be written tentatively as BmBm PrPr VV X bmbm prpr vv.
The order of the genes here has no significance. Then, looking
vious cross

Interference and Coincidence

179

over the three crossover percentages, we should see that 7.75
per cent is the smallest. Therefore, the
pr V and bm Pr v
combinations must represent the double crossovers. Since the

Bm

Bm and V genes and the b?n and v were the parental combinapr and Pr genes must have been the middle of the
This simple fact is an aid in determining the order in which the genes were located.
tions, the

three genes in the series.

Interference and Coincidence

was shown earlier that one chromatid of each of two
paired chromosomes may break at a given spot and that the
two chromatids may then rejoin in a new arrangement, resultIt

Although the cause is not well
understood, it is an observed fact that when a break occurs at
one particular spot, another break cannot occur for a certain
distance from the first. The effect of this is to reduce the number of double crossovers that would be expected on the basis of
chance alone. Thus, when one crossover occurs at a certain
point, another is prevented from occurring within a certain distance from it. This prevention of or interference with the formaing in genetic crossing over.

tion of a second crossover

is

known technically as interference.

The cause may not be a purely mechanical matter, for the degree of interference is not the same in all chromosomes of the
same species or even in all parts of the same chromosome.
The phenomenon of interference can be observed by considering the percentage of double crossovers in

theory of probability.

In Chapter 8

its

relation to the

we saw that when two

independent events occur, the probability that they will occur
at the same time is the probability that one will occur alone

by the probability that the other will occur alone.
In the problem in maize, the crossover value between bm and
pr was 22.27 per cent, or the chance of getting one crossover
between these genes was 22.27 out of 100. The chance of getting
a crossover between pr and v was similarly 43.37 per cent. The
chance of getting two crossovers in those two regions, and hence
between biri and v, is 0.2227 X 0.4337, or 9.66 per cent. In other
multiplied

words, if there were no interference 9.66 per cent of double crossovers should be obtained, whereas actually there were only 7.75

per cent.

The difference is due to interference. This discrepancy

can be expressed as the coefficient of coincidence (also called

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

180

merely coincidence), which is the ratio between the observed
percentage of double crossovers and the number that would be

The coefficient of coincidence

expected on the basis of chance.

in this problem would be 7.75/9.66 or 0.802.

When the coefficient of coincidence is 1.00, there is no interference, and when it is 0, interference is 100 per cent.

between

and 1 may be obtained

;

All values

and the higher the coincidence,

the smaller the amount of interference.

Chromosome Maps Including More Than Three Loci
If several genes are discovered in an organism, how can their
linkage relations and the order in which they would appear on a

chromosome be determined? For example, how could the genes
for black body (6), purple eyes (pr) vestigial wings (vg) curved
wings (c), plexus veins [px] and speck (sp) be mapped? These
genes are in the second chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster.
The characters are readily identified, and stocks of these genes
can be purchased for laboratory experiments. Without considering the actual sequence in which these genes were discovered
and in which their linkage relations worked out, and without
presenting the actual data, let us assume that in several experi,

,

,

,

ments consisting of three-point crosses, enough information has
been obtained to plot the genes. If a three-point cross involving
pr, vg, and px showed that the percentage of recombinations between pr and vg was 12.5, between vg and px was 33.5, and between pr and px was 46, the genes could be mapped in either
of the two orders:

12.5

Mapping Genes on Chromosomes

181

only way it could be plotted would be to the other side of px
from that on which vg lies, as:

33.5

6.5

px

vg

sp

40.0

Four of the six genes are now^ plotted. If gene c, when tested
with pr and sp in a three-point cross, showed 21.0 per cent of
recombinations with pr and 31.5 with sp, and if now pr and sp
appeared to be 52.5 map units apart, since pr is 46 units to one
side of px and sp is 6.5 units to the other side, gene c would be

placed in the following position:

21.0

pr

31.5

vg

px

c

sp

sis

As the genes used

for this three-point test

were rather far

apart, the position of c could be further tested in a three-point

and px. If b were now tested, it could be
placed in position. Not knowing where it might be located, we
might try it first with vg and sp. If the recombinations were
bvg = 18.5 per cent, vg sp = 40.0 per cent, and b sp = 58.5 per
cent, after corrections were made, b could be placed only to the
left of vg and 18.5 units aw^ay, so that the extended map would
cross involving vg

become:
18 .5

b

pr

400
vg

px

c

sp

58.5

In mapping the genes, b would be placed at the extreme left

end of the chromosome at locus 0; then, if the appropriate units
to the right were counted

off,

number

each gene would be placed in

from its nearest genes.
Actually, many more than these six genes have been found on
the second chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster, and a number have been found even to the left of gene b. As new genes
are discovered and located, the maps must be continually reposition the

correct

of units

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

182

Any linkage map, therefore, must be

vised.

tentative.

been found that aristaless

It has

units to the left of

b.

considered only
(al)

is

48.5

map

This discovery means that the tentative

map just pictured must be revised and rewritten as:
al

h

pr

V

c

px

sp

48.5

54.5

67.0

75.0

100.5

107.0

In considering such linkage maps,

we must remember that

the actual distances are always subject to revision as more data

map distances are the result of
much careful work involving numerous crosses and many thouare accumulated.

sands of flies.

Drosophila

Map distances based on one experiment are un-

trustworthy and must never be considered final, but most map
distances in Drosophila are the average of so many experiments

that the degree of error has been reduced greatly.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

By means of a testcross, it was found that the percentage of recom-

binations between genes I and

m was 13.5; that between m and n it was

20; that between I and n it was 6.5.

Plot these genes on their chromosome.
Could they be plotted if only two of these three values were obtained?
2.
{c''^)

In rabbits, yellow fat (y)
to

Himalayan

(c^),

is

recessive to white (F), chinchilla fur

and brown hair

(b)

to black extremities (B).

A heterozygote, Yy c^d^^ Bb, crossed to a triple recessive gave (data
from Castle in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Yo\\xn\Q 19)

Questions and Problems

183

stipules (s) to normal, and green pod (v) to purple (V).

Xbsv,
b

the

In the backcross

phenotypes were obtained:

following

166 B S V

:

V

s

14 B S V

:

3 B s V

:

70 b S V

:

76 B s V

:

2 b S V

:

14 b s

V

:

146 b s V.

Plot these genes on their chromosomes.

Determine the percentage of double crossing over and determine
coincidence in problem 4.
6. Using the chromosome map you obtained in problem 4, calculate
the expected ratio for families of 400 plants if the crosses were B sv /
5.

bSVXhsv/bsv or BsV/bSvXhsv/bsv.
7.

What would be the expected ratios of the offspring of the following

crosses:

BSV/bsvXbsv/bsv; Bsv/bSvXbsv/bsv; BsV/

X b s V / b s v] b S V / b s V X b s v / b s v?
8. A three-point test in maize involving the genes 02, gl, and ij give

b s V

the following counts (data from Singleton in Genetics)

Fi genotype

:

Locating Genes on Chromosomes

184
cotyledon

(Q).

A cross NN KK qq X tin kk QQ gave the following

phenotypes:
7 5 per cent

thin pod, normal wings, aborted cotyledon

17 5 per cent

thin pod, normal wings, normal seed

.

.

7.5 per cent

thin pod, keeled wings, aborted cotyledon

17 5 per cent

thick pod, normal wings, aborted cotyledon

17.5 per cent
7.5 per cent

thin pod, keeled wings, normal seed

thick pod, normal wings, normal seed

17.5 per cent

thick pod, keeled wings, aborted cotyledon

7 5 per cent

thick pod, keeled wings, normal seed

.

.

Plot these genes on their chromosomes or chromosome.
15.

What would be the approximate ratio of the types in problem 14

if the cross was

16.
if

NN KK QQ X nn kk

qq'l

What would be the approximate ratio of the types in problem 14

the cross was Nn Kk Qq X Nn Kk Qq?
17.

In maize, zb produces zebra striping,

Tu produces tunicate ear,

and gl produces glossy seedling. The following results were obtained
from individual sellings (data from Hayes and Chang in Genetics)
Zb Tu /zbtuX Zb Tu / zb tu gave 410 Zb Tu 64 Zb tu 64 zb Tu
:

:

:

:

90 zb tu.

Zb gl / zbGlX Zb gl / zb Gl gave 326 Zb Gl

:

148 Zb gl

:

135 zb Gl

:

19

zb gl.

Tu gl /tuGlX Tu gl / tu Gl

gave

314 Tu Gl

:

160 Tu gl

:

147 tu Gl

:

7 tu gl.
Is there any evidence of linkage?

determine the percentage and

If so,

plot the genes on their chromosome.

Suppose you have the following three different strains of the same
You desire to
species of plant: aa BB cc, aabbCC, and AaBbCc.
determine whether these genes are linked. Outline the complete pro18.

cedure you would use to determine whether there was any linkage.
19.

In using a three-point test, must all the linkages involved be in

either the coupling or the repulsion phase?
20.

In Nemesia strumosa, orange (0)

is

dominant to white

(o);

a

strain of oo plants was found which had a recessive gene for blue-margin

(bm).

When a white, blue-margin plant was crossed with an orange, the

offspring were 18 orange

linkage?

:

19 blue-margin.

Is there

any evidence

of

Is it conclusive?

21. If genes a and b are on the same chromosome but show 50 per cent

crossing over, does this indicate that no chiasmata are formed between

a and 6?
22. Crossing over between the following genes was observed: a and b,

30 per cent; a and c, 50 per cent; b and c, 20 per cent; c and d, 20 per cent;

Questions and Problems
b and d, 40 per cent.

185

What percentage of crossing over would be expected

between a and dl
23. If a new gene, e, was found and if it showed 50 per cent crossing
over with all four of the genes mentioned in question 22, could you state

with certainty that it was not on the same chromosome with the other
genes?
24. If linkage

was complete in both sexes (as it is in the male Dro-

sophila), could you plot the genes on the chromosomes?

Chapter 12

CHROMOSOME MAPS
Linkage Groups
In the last chapter it was shown that a number of hnked genes
could be mapped on the assumptions that the amount of crossing over

is

proportional to the distance between the genes on

the chromosome and that a crossover

may occur with equal

freedom at any place on a chromosome except the region immediately adjacent to another crossover. On this basis genes have
been mapped in a number of organisms.

A group of genes showing linkage relationships with one another genetically

is

a linkage group; and since all the genes in

one linkage group are believed to be located on the same chromosome, the number of linkage groups should correspond with
the number of chromosomes observed cytologically in the
species.

It

same

has been found to be true in several organisms in

which the number of genes discovered and located is sufficiently
large for the number of linkage groups to be determined with
reasonable assurance.

To be

sure of the correspondence be-

tween the number of linkage groups and the number of chromosomes, a large number of genes must be used in most organisms

for,

if

only a few are found,

it

is

highly probable that

some would be so far removed from the others on the same
chromosome that they would give the same genetic ratios as
they would if they were on a separate chromosome. To be
certain of the number of linkage groups, then, ordinarily a large
number of genes must be discovered. It would not, of course,
be necessary for such an organism as Drosophila melanogaster
in which there is no crossing over in one sex, for one gene far
removed from the others could still be placed in its proper linkage group by means of the 2:1:1:0 ratio obtained from
crosses in the repulsion phase when there is complete linkage
in one sex. Linkage groups have been worked out carefully for
186

Linkage Groups

187

TABLE 4
A List of Some of the Genes of the Four Linkage Groups of Drosophila
melanogaster
Chromosome I (X)

Chromosome II

0.0 yellow B

y

0.0 aristaless B

sc

0.1 expanded

0.

scute

H

0.

hairy

W—Hw

1.5

white E *

3.0 facet

11.0 echinoid E

E—/a

18.2 carmine

20.0 cut

W—

21.0 singed
27. b tan

W cv

36.1 miniature

43.0 sable

—

se

W—cur

37.0 rotated

B—

41.0 dichaete

rt

H— Z)

41.4 glued E—Gl

*—

43.2 thread E—th

W j

44.0 scarlet E *—8t

Centromere

pr

54.8 bristle K—Bl

47.5 deformed E—Dfd

48.0 pink E *—p

E—U

v

55.0 light

Centromere

50.0 curled

55.1 rolled W—rl

57.9 crossveinless

fw

W sd

B—

58.2 stubble

58.5 spineless

H*

58.8 bithorax

B—

<fc

57.5 cinnebar E

en
en

H—

62.0 engrailed B

57.0 bar E

*—B

67.0 vestigial

59.5 fused

V—/u

62.5 carnation E

72.0 lobe

W*

vg

W—

62.0 stripe

B— sr

*

93.3 humpy B—hy

Cerdromere

99.2 arc

W—
W

100.5 plexus

66.2 delta

Y—Dl

H—H
B—

69.5 hairless

70.7 ebony

75.7 cardinal E
*

79.7 minute

px

W—

bw

91.0 taxi

106.7 lanceolate

W—

91.1 rough E

*sp

cd

WH— Mu)

104.5 brown E

107.0 speck B

ss
6a;

63.1 glass E~gl

W —
82.0 fringed W—/;

H—66

R—Sb

59.9 fluted

E—

75.5 curved

car

W— cu
— W cv

W ap

55.3 thick legs—

55.4 apterous

g

<x

ro

100.7 claret E—ca
106.2 minute-g

R—Mg

Those marked with an asterisk are usually readily available for teaching purposes.
each gene is the locus at which it is found on its chromosome.
affected and then the symbol of the gene.

wings;

W—bt

H—

30.0 curvoid

56.7 forked

66.0 bobbed

ey

B—Sk

48.7 jaunty

B—

50.5 scalloped

E

W* m

38.7 furrowed E

44.4 garnet E

sv

0.2 eyeless

B—

54.5 purple E *

33.0 vermilion E

H

W—dv

16.0 streak

48.5 black B

Iz

0.1 shaven

31.0 dachs

44.0 abrupt B—ab

27.7 lozenge E

jv

26.0 sepia E

E cm
sn

0.1 bent

H

26.5 hairy

c<

H

E— re

B— dp

W—

Chromosome IV
Centromere

0.2 veinlet

13.0 dumpy

41.0 jammed

B—

ru

19.2 javelin

20.0 divergent

ed

W—

12.0 gull

E ec
6.9 bifid W—bi
rb
7.5 ruby E
5.5 ecinus

13.7 crossveinless

W ex

E—S

1.3 star

w

Chromosome III
0.0 roughoid E

al

Before the name of

After each name is the part of the body chiefly

The parts are: B, body; E, eye; H, hairs or bristles; V, veins of the

W, wings.

the following species, and in each it
linkage groups

somes:

is

is

seen that the number of

the same as the haploid

number of chromo-

Chromosome Maps

188

A number of genes in the four linkage groups of Drosophila
melanogaster are listed in Table 4.

With the name of the gene
are presented the locus of the gene, the part of the body principally affected by the gene, and the symbol used to identify the
This

not intended to be complete as only a small
percentage of the genes actually discovered is included. Table
gene.

5

is

list is

a similar linkage map for the ten chromosomes of maize.

TABLE 5
Some of the Genes Located in Maize with the Name of Each, Its Symbol,
AND Its Locus
Chromosome I

Chromosome II

pericarp color—

25 asynapsis

liguleless

as

19 glossy seedling-2

52 brachytic plant
57 fine stripe-l

gh

45 silkless

—am

28 nana-1

B

38 plant-color booster

br

—/i

Chromosome III
aleurone color

Ig

sk

39 barren stalk-1

—6a

56 tassel seed-4

tSi

57 floury endosperm^^

63 ragged leaf

101 green-striped-1

gsi

63 tassel seed-1

85 dwarf-1— di

128 brown midrib-2

bm2

71 virescent seedling-4

74 anther ear-1

tsi

—

dei

aleurone color

Ga

56 tassel seed-5

Tsi,

12 brevis height

66 small pollen

sp

31 red aleurone-l— pri

51 salmon silk

69 lethal ovule

lo

40 yellow stripe-l

61 pigmy—py

su

bmi

13 yellow endosperm-l

41 purple plant color

bv

ysi

72 virescent 8eedling-2

74 defective endosperm-16

po

poljrmitotic

35 gametophyte

71 sugary

cri

Chromosome VI

—02

6 brown midrib-1

1

Rg

103 crinkly leaf-1

1;4

Chromosome V

Chromosome IV
defective endosperin-l

ai

nai

Yi
PI

sm

V2

—dcie

100 tunicate— ru
105 japonica-2

jo

111 glossy seedling-3

glz

Chromosome VII
virescent seedling-5
14 ramosa ear-1

v^

— roi

18 glossy seedling-l

18 japonica-1

Oknob

mss

2 yellow green-2

ji

gh

21 aleurone color

Chromosome X

28 teopod— Tp
34 lojap striping

Chromosome IX

Chromosome VIII
male-sterile-8

narrow leaf-1

ij

52 brown aleurone-1

Bni

18 golden-1

24 shrunken endosperm
39 brown pericarp

nli

54 waxy endosperm

gi

32 colored aleurone and plant

yg2

C

R

sh

bp

wx

66 virescent seedling-l

vi

Other Genetical Methods of Determining Linkage Groups

The method for determining linkage groups described in the
last chapter is the method in almost universal use.
Others, however,

have been suggested and have been used to a hmited ex-

tent.

One method, suggested by Muller and Painter, is based

upon the frequency with which changes or mutations in genes
occur. Another method is based upon crossing over in organisms
which have three sets of haploid chromosomes instead of two.

Cytological Methods

189

As these methods are of interest to advanced rather than beginning students, they are not discussed here.
Cytological Methods

A linkage group shows the genes linked with one another, the
order in which they are arranged and the distance they are apart

from one another as determined by genetic means. Genetic
methods alone, however, are not sufficient to show exactly which
chromosome as observed through the microscope corresponds to
a given linkage group, although sometimes it may be inferred
from the size of the linkage groups and the size of the chromosomes. Combined genetic and cytological studies, utilizing either
spontaneous chromosomal abnormalities or similar aberrations
induced by radiation, have in some cases supplied this missing
information.

In Drosophila melanog aster there are four linkage groups.

Two are very long and almost the same size, one is extremely
short and includes only a few genes, and the fourth

is

inter-

mediate in length. A cytological examination of this species
shows two pairs of very long chromosomes that are almost the
same size, a pair of very short ones, and the intermediate-sized

chromosome, which is paired in the female and single in the
male, and is the
chromosome. In the male, a Y chromosome

X

is

also observed cytologically.

It is reasonable to correlate the

very small linkage group with the very short fourth chromosome.

The fact that the genes of the intermediate-sized linkage group
are sex-linked establishes definitely the connection between this

linkage group and the intermediate-sized chromosome.

It is im-

which of the large linkage groups
corresponds to each of the pairs of large chromosomes merely
by looking at them. By observing a series of translocations,
however, Dobzhansky was able to resolve this' difficulty.
A translocation is a chromosomal aberration in which a piece
of one chromosome becomes broken off in some manner and
becomes attached to another chromosome, frequently at the end.
If the translocated piece includes genes, these genes no longer
show linkage relationships with the genes with which they were
previously linked and now show linkage and crossing over with
possible, however, to state

the genes of the chromosome to which they had become attached.

In other words, translocation changes the structure of

Chromosome Maps

190

the chromosomes and also the composition of the linkage groups.

Several of Dobzhansky's translocations involved segments of
the third chromosome, which became attached to the

X chromo-

some or to the very short chromosome IV. Chromosome III is
the longer of the two long chromosomes.
By observing which
genes had changed their linkage groups, Dobzhansky was able
to determine which linkage group corresponded to the longest
pair of chromosomes.

Similar translocations of pieces of the

second chromosome established the correspondence between the
shorter of the pair of long chromosomes and the genes of the

second linkage group.
Translocations have also been used to locate individual genes
in definite regions of their chromosome.
is

An interesting example

male ferMales with both an X chro-

Stern's determination of the location of genes for

tility in

Drosophila melanog aster.

mosome and a Y chromosome that has lost its short arm are
sterile.
Other males which have lost the long arm of their Y
chromosome are also sterile. When both arms of the Y chromosome are present, the male is fertile. It follows that the two
arms of the Y chromosome contain genes for fertility and that
genes of both arms must be present if the fly is to be fertile.
These fragments of the Y chromosome arose spontaneously.

By the use of a large series of translocations the position of a
number of genes on the chromosomes has been shown. Although
crossover data give the sequence of the genes and the distance

between them, these distances are calculated purely statistically

and must necessarily be based on the assumption that crossing
over occurs with equal ease in

all

parts of the chromosome.

AVhether these distances and the genetic maps based upon them

correspond to the true spatial relationships of the genes on the

chromosomes depends

upon the correctness of this assumption. If the frequency of crossing over per unit of chromosomal length is different in different parts of a chromosome, the
linkage

entirely

map wdll not give a picture of the exact distribution

of the genes in space on that chromosome.

If the genes cross

over more frequently in one particular region of the chromosome, the linkage map for that region will be too long; and if
in

another part of the chromosome inert material is present in

which crossing over does not occur so that crossovers occur with

Cytological Methods
a smaller frequency there, the linkage

191

map for that region will

appear too short.

The general method in use in attacking this problem is this.
(1)

By subjecting organisms to X-rays, pieces of the chromo-

somes are broken

and translocated to other chromosomes.
(2) Genetic linkage studies are then undertaken to determine
at what place on the genetic map each break occurred.
(3) The
chromosomes of each fly with a translocation are then examined
cytologically and the place of the break determined by noting
the nearness of the break to the end, to the centromere, and to
off

various secondary constrictions that may be present.

proportionate

length

measurement.

(5)

is

(6)

of

the

broken piece

is

The
determined by
(4)

The proportionate size of each translocation

compared with the break

in the linkage

map of that fly.

By these comparisons the approximate position on the chro-

mosome is determined for a number of genes.
When a large number of translocations are studied the actual
spatial relationship of the genes of the linkage group can be

determined reasonably accurately.
These translocations have
been studied for the metaphase chromosomes, and the cytological

map constructed by this means is called a "metaphase chromoThe student must not get the impression that the
cytologist can direct the X-rays so as to break a chromosome
at any desired point.
He frequently w^ishes he could, but, so
far, it has been impossible.
The breaks occur by chance and
the cytologist must take them as they come.
If a sufficient
number of flies is treated, however, the chance is good of obtaining a number of breaks at different places in the same
some map."

chromosome.
A comparison of a genetic linkage map and the corresponding
metaphase chromosome map of the
chromosome, chromosome
II, and chromosome III of Drosophila melanogaster (Fig. 56)
shows that in each case the order of the genes is the same but
that the genetic distances and cytological distances do not always
agree.
In the two large chromosomes, genes near the centromere are much farther apart on the metaphase chromosome than
For example,
w^ould be supposed from linkage studies alone.
Dobzhansky has pointed out that on the second chromosome
the distances between the genes It (light eye), rl (rolled wings),
and tk (thick legs) amount to less than one one-hundredth of the

X

Chromosome Maps

192
genetic

map but actually cover one-fourth of the metaphase

chromosome. Similarly for chromosome III, st (scarlet eye)
and cu (curled wings) occupy about one-eighteenth of the genetic
map but one-fifth of the metaphase chromosome. Other discrepancies appear also in other parts of these chromosomes. For
these two chromosomes, genes near the centromere are relatively
farther apart on the metaphase map than on the genetic map;

m G
Fig. 56. A comparison of genetic and cytological maps of the X, second,
and third chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster. G, genetic map; S,
salivary gland map; O, mitotic map. Centromere is marked s.f.
Corresponding loci on the three types of maps are connected by transverse lines.
(Redrawn from Mather in Biological Reviews.)

arm of both chromosomes are relatively farther apart on the genetic map; those
the genes in the middle region of either

near the ends of the second chromosome are relatively farther
apart on the metaphase map.
Discrepancies also appear when the X chromosome is studied
and are even more marked, for only one gene, bobbed, is present
in the third of the chromosome nearest the centromere.
This
part of the chromosome is the "inert" region and, although it
appears to be a normal part of a chromosome when the metaphase chromosome is examined under the microscope, it forms
part of the chromocenter of the salivary gland chromosomes and
therefore must be different from the rest of the chromosome (see
Chapter 5). The remaining two-thirds of the chromosome contains all the

of the

known genes except bobbed, but even in this part

chromosome the distances between the genes are not the

Cytological Methods

193

same in genetic and cytological maps. For example, a large
number of genes appear to occupy a small part of one end of
the linkage

map but to cover a relatively much greater part

metaphase map. In general, it seems that the genes on
the Drosophila chromosomes are much more evenly spaced on
the metaphase map than on the map constructed from crossover
of the

data.

same techniques which are used in the construction of metaphase chromosome maps are also used to compare the order and distance of genes on the linkage maps of
Drosophila melanogaster with the order and position of the
bands on the salivary gland chromosomes. It was pointed out
in Chapter 5 that these giant chromosomes are characterized by
the presence of a number of bands or discs of different size and
staining capacity which are separated by regions of nonstaining
material.
Some bands are thick and very deeply stained with
aceto-carmine others are thin and very lightly stained. P. N.
Essentially the

;

Bridges has counted 3795 such bands (counting as one certain

bands that appear double when the chromosomes are greatly
stretched).

The important problem is whether these bands indicate the
regions in which the genes are located.
The method of study
involves considerable labor. The first problem was to study the
morphological features of the normal salivary gland chromo-

somes and determine the position and order of each band and
its relation to gross permanent features of the chromosomes,
such as swollen portions and thinner regions. Once this was
known, the next steps were to produce translocations, inversions,
and deletions. In all cases, the material had to be known
genetically, so that it could be determined from phenotypie
studies where the breaks in the linkage groups occurred. Cytological observation was then made to determine which bands
or groups of bands had changed position.
If a piece is broken from the interior region of one chromosome (an intercalary deletion), the remaining parts pair with
the corresponding parts of the homologous chromosome band
The part of the normal chromosome which correfor band.
sponds to the part that is missing from the deleted chromosome bulges out to one side and takes no part in pairing (Fig.
Cytological observations show which bands are missing
57).

Chromosome Maps

194

from the deleted chromosome, and genetic linkage studies indicate which genes are missing. The assumption naturally is made
that the missing genes are located in the region of the missing

bands.

Patterson has shown that short deletions can be pro-

duced with considerable frequency by subjecting flies to radiShort deletions are naturally better for this type of
ation.
work than long ones for they restrict the number of genes and
bands involved.
By using a large

number

of

such

deletions,

Painter,

Mackensen, and others have succeeded

Deleted

in

locating the regions of a

of

genes.

overlapping

In

addition

deletions,

to

number
series

of

translocations

and inversions are also used and yield
the same types of evidence. By these
various related methods, salivary gland

FiG. 57.

chromosome maps have been made for
the X chromosome and for both arras
of chromosome II and chromosome
III. The most recent maps have been
published by C. B. and P. N. Bridges

Pairing in a small

section of a salivary gland

chromosome

of

Drosophila

melanogaster in which one

chromosome has a deleted
segment.
The corresponding segment of the homologous chromosome forms a
loop. (Redrawn from Painter

(Fig. 58).

The translocation technique has recently given us some interesting infor-

in the Journal of Heredity.)

mation on the fourth chromosome of
Drosophila melanogaster. This chromosome had generally been regarded

as a very tiny dot-like

chromosome with the centromere at one

end, although the possibility of a strictly terminal centromere

has recently been very strongly questioned.
succeeded in breaking

off

Griffen and Stone

a small piece of the

X chromosome

bands which mark the ichite
locus; this piece then became translocated to the fourth chromo-

just to the right of the five sharp

Metaphase studies of a fly heterozygous for this translochromosome IV and one that was
two-lobed, indicating that the translocated piece had apparently
become attached to the centromere end (Fig. 59a). An examination of the salivary gland chromosomes of such flies showed the
translocated piece up to and including the region of white, but
also revealed a region between white and the centromere of chrosome.

cation showed one normal

Linkage Groups in Human Beings

mosome IV.

This region contained several

and several finely dotted
When the broken end of the X
bands.
chromosome was studied, it was found that
none of the bands to the right of the region
of white was missing. This region between
the translocation and the centromere of
chromosome IV must therefore represent a
left arm of chromosome IV which had predistinct

195

bands

viously not been observed

(Fig. 59t>).

o
C3

It

had apparently been overlooked in previous
studies because the whole chromosome is
very small and because it is almost always
observed in the temporary aceto-carmine
mounts with which salivary gland chromosomes are frequently studied.
To show
this arm, the smearing must be done with
great care, and Bridges's permanent method

o
O

o

should be used.

Linkage Groups in Human Beings
Extensive linkage maps have been pre-

pared for Drosophila melanogaster and Zea

mays, but almost nothing is known of linkage in man.

In most organisms in which a

number of genes have been discovered, these
genes are frequent enough for appropriate
crosses to be made to test the linkage rela-

tionships of a large

number of them.

In

man, however, most of the genes that have
been discovered are infrequnt in natural
populations the chance that two such genes
;

will be found in any one family is therefore

small.

In man, too, the

number of chro-

mosomes is considerably larger than in the
plants and animals in which linkage has

For example, the
chance that two random genes would be on
the same chromosome is greater in Drosophila melanogaster than in man, where the
been studied intensively.

^

Chromosome Maps

196

haploid chromosome number

It is impossible to set

24.

is

up

mating experiments in human beings; therefore, the pedigree
culture method cannot be used. A technique based on statistical
studies of natural families has recently been

worked out, but

cm

A translocation of a piece of the X chromosome to chromo-

Fig. 59.

some IV

(a) metaphase and (b) sahvary
For discussion, see text. (Redrawn from Griffen and
University of Texas Publication 4032).

in Drosophila melanogaster.

gland chromosomes.

Stone in

very new in comparison with the methods used in
studying linkage in other forms of life, much less progress has
been made in our studies of human beings.
since

it

is

Incomplete Sex Linkage in Man
In Chapter 7 it was pointed out that if a gene is located in a
part of the

X chromosome which

part of the

Y chromosome, that gene follows a pattern of trans-

mission known as sex linkage.
is

in a part of the

is

not homologous with any

It was also

shown that if a gene

Y chromosome which is not homologous with

any part of the X chromosome, the gene will always be transmitted directly from father to son.

If the

located in that chromosomal segment which

gene, however,
is

is

present in both

X

and Y chromosomes it is said to be incompletely sex linked.
So far, nine such genes are known in man.
If a certain dominant gene, 0, is found in the
chromosome
of a man while the homologous segment of the Y chromosome
bears the allele, o, and if that man is mated w4th a homozygous

the

X

recessive

woman, four types of offspring will be produced.

The

Incomplete Sex Linkage in Man

197

noncrossover types will be a heterozygous female

who will be

and a homozygous recessive man.

These two

phenotypically

types follow the crisscross pattern expected of ordinary sexlinked genes, but, in addition, two crossover types will be pres-

ent which do not appear in sex linkage.

They are a homozygous

man (Fig.

recessive woman and a heterozygous, phenotypically

These new types show that we are not dealing with

60a).

o-

X

-0

o-

Oo

O

o-

-

X

-o

+0

o- --00-- \0

0-- --00--

recombinations

noncrossovers

-

noncrossovers

+0

o

o-

-

X

4-0

Oo

recombinations

a
Scheme

Fig. 60.

human beings,

(a)

of inheritance

gene o and a male with
part of the

of

an incompletely sex-linked gene in

A cross between a female homozygous for the recessive
on the

X chromosome and o on the homologous

Y chromosome,

with o on the

X and

(b) A cross between the oo female and a male
on the Y chromosome.

chromosome inheritance alone. If sex is disregarded, the ratio
of 1 Oo
1 00 makes the cross appear to be an ordinary testcross.
When, however, the sex of the individuals is also taken
into account, the greater abundance of Oo females and oo males
shows that the gene is in the sex chromosome. The percentage
of recessive women and dominant men will vary with the gene
under investigation and will depend upon the distance the particular gene happens to be from the nonhomologous segments.
By the use of these different percentages, Haldane has con:

structed a linkage map for this homologous segment.

male used in a test had the
gene on the Y chromochromosome, the noncrossover
some and the o gene on the
types would be recessive females and dominant males as in Y
chromosome inheritance. The appearance of dominant females
If the

X

Chromosome Maps

198

and recessive males (Fig. 606) could be accounted for only by
crossing over between alleles in the X and Y chromosomes.
Nine genes have been plotted on the homologous segment of
the X and Y chromosomes (Table 6). The gene for complete
color blindness or day blindness prevents the afflicted person
from distinguishing any color and must not be confused with
Daltonism. Xeroderma pigmentosum is a condition in which
a person's skin and eyes are abnormally sensitive to light. It
leads generally to a fatal malignant disease of the skin. This
gene

is

almost completely recessive, but the heterozygotes are

often heavily

freckled.

Oguchi's disease

is

a

form of night

blindness found mainly in Japan, but also reported in Europe.
This condition is characterized by a peculiar golden appearance

which disappears on dark adaptaSpastic paraplegia, resulting in a motor weakness of the
tion.
lower limbs, may be caused by both dominant and recessive
The dominant gene is located in an autosome, but the
genes.
recessive type appears to be partially sex linked and to result
of the light-adapted fundus

from three or more

alleles

determining different ages of onset.

A group of diseases are characterized by the formation of bullae
in the skin.

In the dystrophic form of epidermolysis bullosa the

bullae are formed in deep layers and give rise to scars.

The

dystrophic form results from both dominant and recessive nonallelic genes,

but the recessive form is probably incompletely sex

more severe than the dominant type, and

linked,

is

fatal.

Retinitis pigmentosa

is

is

often

a type of night blindness involv-

ing a contraction of the visual

field,

thickening of the retinal

blood vessel, the production of ophthalmoscopically visible pig-

mentation of the retina, and often complete blindness. It may
result from several dominant and recessive genes. In some pedigrees the dominant form appears to be incompletely sex linked

with a crossover value of about 28 per cent.

Two of the re-

cessive forms result from autosomal genes, and one of these also

produces deafness.

A recessive type without deafness appears

to result from a recessive allele of the incompletely sex-linked

shows the same percentage of crossing
Hereditary hemorrhagic diathesis is another character

dominant gene
over.

for

it

that appears to be incompletely sex linked.

generally

characterized

The condition is

by purpura and by prolonged spon-

Incomplete Sex Linkage in Man

199

taneous bleeding from the nose, uterus, and mucous membranes.
Another incompletely sex-linked gene is one for idiopathic convulsive disorder.

Children first show the trait when about one

TABLE 6
A List of Nine Genes That Are Probably Incompletely Sex-Linked
IN Man
(Compiled from Haldane, Kaliss and Schweitzer, and Snyder and Palmer.)

Locus

Chromosome Maps

200

The gene involved is a recessive,

the ages of four and twelve.

incompletely sex-linked lethal.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Why does it seem logical that the number of linkage groups should

equal the haploid number of chromosomes?
2.

What is the difference between a "genetic" and a "cytological"

map ?
3.

What are the fundamental assumptions in plotting genes on a

linkage map?
4.

If

the order of the genes on a genetic map corresponds with the

order on a cytological map, why do the distances not always correspond ?
5.

Look up and discuss genetic methods used in constructing linkage

groups other than the method based on the frequency of crossing over.
6.

In Primula, short style (»S) is dominant over long (s), blue flower

(B) over nonblue (6), green stigma (G) over colored (g), and light red
leaf

(L) over dark

sb g

I,

(/)

.

In the backcross of

SBGL/sbglXsbgl/

the following phenotypes (male only) were obtained:

^58SBGL
7SBGI
5SBg L

ISb Gl
2Sb g L

Q5Sb g I

25Sb GL

Os BGl
Os Bg L

3s b Gl
9s b g L

S2s BGL

2118 b GL

AQ7 s b g I

270SBg

29 s B g I

I

Determine all the linkages involved and plot the genes on their chromo-

some or chromosomes.
7.

Calculate the linkage values in problem 6.

Using these values, cal-

Compare your expected ratio with

culate the expected backcross ratio.

the observed ratio.
8.

Assume that you have conducted an experiment in Drosophila

melanogaster involving the following genes: cur (curved wing)

body)

;

bt (bent wing)

;

se (sepia eye)

;

b (black body)

;

;

d (dachs

ca (claret eye)

st (scarlet eye); S (star eye); pr (purple eye); rt (rotated abdomen).
Assume that you obtained the following crossover values:

—
d—b
S —b
—
—cur
d
—

cur

se

st

rt

14 per cent

18 per cent

47 per cent
11 per cent

se

4 per cent

*S

30 per cent

se

st

18 per cent

Questions and Problems

—pr
cur—
b

rt

6 per cent
7 per cent

—pr

24 per cent

rt—st

7 per cent

d

201

Assume that all other combinations showed 50 per cent crossing over.
Plot these genes on their chromosome or chromosomes.
(Data are approximate and not based on actual experiment.)
9.

What is a translocation?

Of what value are translocations

in

linkage experiments?

What are the difficulties involved in constructing linkage maps in
human beings? Would such maps be of practical value to a physician?
10.

V

Chapter 13

MISCELLANEOUS LINKAGE TOPICS
Cytogenetic Proof of Crossing Over

That genetic crossing over was caused by breaks and reahgnments between chromatids at pachytene was not always reaUzed
and even after the analogy between crossing over and chiasmata
was pointed out, it lacked experimental proof for a considerable
time.

That the genes might be located in the chromosomes was
suggested by Sutton in 1903 who, however, had no conception
of crossing over. The possibility that genes in one chromosome
could exchange with their alleles in the homologous chromosome
was suggested at about the same time by de Vries and others,
but the exact mechanism of meiosis was not understood at that
time and the possible method of bringing about such exchanges
was largely a matter of speculation. A few years later, evidence of the mechanism of such exchanges was furnished by
The possible explanaJanssens, who demonstrated chiasmata.
tion of all linkage phenomena on the basis of Janssens 's chiasmata was suggested by Morgan in 1911, who pointed out that if
the genes were arranged in a linear order on the chromosome,
the genes in a chromosome which came from the maternal
parent could lie during synapsis next to their alleles in the ho-

mologous chromosome derived from the paternal parent. As the
result of this pairing of alleles, the exchange of groups or blocks
of genes on one chromosome with similar groups on the homologous chromosome could occur and undoubtedly did occur at
about the time of chiasma formation. This theory agreed with
the then

known observations, but, for twenty years thereafter,

There was no proof because the
two homologous chromosomes are identical when viewed under
the microscope, and although such chiasmata can be interpreted
as due to an exchange of homologous segments, there is no way
conclusive proof was lacking.

202

Cytogenetic Proof of Crossing Over

203

of differentiating visually the maternal segments from the paternal.

In 1931, the demonstration that genetic crossing over

is

cor-

related cytologically with an exchange of pieces of homologous

chromatids was made independently by Creighton and McClintock in maize and by Stern in Drosophila, and the methods of

demonstrating it were the same in each organism.
Since two homologous chromosomes are normally indistinguishable cytologically, the object of the method was to find or

chromosomes in which the two ends of two homologues
were visibly different, while the central part, in which there were
known genes whose phenotypic effects could be observed, was
the same. In maize, chromosome IX was studied. It bears the
genes C and c for colored and colorless aleurone and Wx and wx
Some strains of maize have a
for starchy and waxy endosperm.
chromosome IX in which a large "knob" of genetically inert
heterochromatin is present at the end towards which gene C lies;
Otherwise identical, the two hoother strains lack the knob.
create

mologues can be distinguished in the heterozygote only at the
end with the knob; the other end is alike in all strains so that
a crossover between two such heteromorphic chromosomes cannot be demonstrated cytologically.

Occasionally, however, ab-

normalities in meiosis occur by which a piece of one chromo-

some can become exchanged with a piece of a nonhomologous
chromosome. This segmental interchange, or reciprocal translocation, occurs very rarely in maize under supposedly normal
conditions and may be produced by X-rays or radium.
Creighton and McClintock found a strain of maize in which
a piece of a chromosome IX from a knobbed strain had changed
places with a larger segment of chromosome VIII at the end
away from the knob. These new chromosomes are known as
As Fig. 61 shows, this exchange
''interchange" chromosomes.
produced a knobbed chromosome IX which was longer than the
normal, and as a result could be distinguished at both ends
from a normal chromosome IX of the knobless strain. When a
normal knobless strain was crossed with an interchanged knobbed
strain, the offspring had one normal knobless chromosome IX
and one interchanged and knobbed chromosome IX. Since only
homologous parts of homologous chromosomes pair, the non-

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

204

homologous ends are not paired. The normal knobless chromosome had the genes c and Wx, whereas the interchange knobbed
chromosomes had C and wx (Table 5). The original cross was

Jl

b

a

c

d

e

f

Chromosomes involved in Creighton and McClintock's demon(a) a normal knobbed chromosome IX; (b) a
normal knobless chromosome IX; (c) a normal chromosome VIII. By a
reciprocal translocation, a piece of chromosome VIII exchanged with a
piece of chromosome IX of the knobbed strain, producing an interchange
chromosome IX (d) and an interchange VIII (e). In a plant with a norFig. 61.

stration of crossing over:

mal knobless IX, a normal VIII, and the two interchange chromosomes,
a quadrivalent figure would be found as at (/).

made, then, in the repulsion phase, and the Fi was crossed with
a plant that had two normal knobless chromosomes and the
genes c Wx / c wx. If only the c icx chromosome is considered,
If a crossover occurred between the
this represents a testcross.
c and wx loci of the Fi, the parental types and nonparental
types should be:
Parental types:

Phenotypes

Chromosomes

colorless; starchy

knobless; normal
knobbed; long

colored; waxy

Recombinations: colorless; waxy
colored; starchy

All four types were recovered.

knobless; long

knobbed; normal

The phenotypes showed that

had occurred between the c and ivx loci.
Cytological observations of the heteromorphic bivalent showed
that a break and realignment had occurred between the knobbed
end and the interchanged end. The correlation between the cytological observations and the genetic results afforded proof of
genetic crossing over

Cytogenetic Proof of Crossing Over

205

the cytological basis of crossing over that had not been found
previously.
Stern's work in Drosophila

was very similar (Fig. 62).

Here
In one strain, which

two X chromosomes were heteromorphic.
Fi

car -

female

+

testcross male

car-

-

X

B-

+

N

-

Offspring

males

females
car

-

B-

car

-

+H

car

B-

phenotypes

K

carnation

S

bar

parental

combinations

+

-

+

-

car -

K

+

red

nonbar

car

car

car

+

+

+

K

carnation

^

nonbar

*

+H

car

H--

B

+

B-

h

recombinations

red

bar

Fig. 62.

Stern's

method

of demonstrating genetic

crossing over cyto-

by means of a translocation in the X chromosome of Drosophila
melanogaster. For explanation, see text.
logically

and B (bar-shaped
chromosome had broken off from the B
eye), a piece of the
This piece had become attached to one of the members
end.
of chromosome IV so that its genes were not lost. In the other
strain, a piece of the Y chromosome had broken off and become
attached to the car end of the X chromosome; it carried the
carried the genes car (carnation-colored eye)

X

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

206
wild-type genes

-}-''^''

(red eye)

and

+^ (normal-shaped eye).

Thus the two ends could be distinguished by observation. When
the two strains were crossed, the Fi females were heterozygous
for both pairs of genes and were heteromorphic for the X chromosome. The Fi was testcrossed to a cai^ +^ male; it was the
double recessive and had a normal X chromosome. This testcross produced

flies

that were phenotypically of the parental

types and had parental-type chromosomes.

It also yielded, how-

which were phenotypically recombinations and had chromosomes showing that a break and
realignment had occurred between the two morphologically different ends. As in maize, cytological crossing over was accompanied by genetical crossing over, and the theory of crossing
ever, a small percentage of flies

over was further substantiated.

Four-Strand Crossing Over
It

has been pointed out in previous chapters that crossing

over occurs between only one chromatid of each homologous

chromosome at any one place and that crossing over occurs between chromatids and not between whole chromosomes. Since
it occurs when there are four chromatids, it is said to occur in
the

four-strand stage

or

double-strand stage.

In Janssens's

work on chiasmata, however, two types of crossing over
were described. One type, often called total chiasmatyyy occurs
when the two chromatids of one homologue break and exchange
with the two chromatids of the other homologue at the same
place. This is the type that Janssens believed to be most common. As a result of this method, all four gametes (or spores)
from one mother cell would be recombinations and there would
earlier

,

He also recognized
be no gametes of the parental type (Fig. 63)
that partial chiasmatypy might exist by which only one chromatid of each chromosome could exchange and four types of
.

gametes would be produced. Today it is believed that total
chiasmatypy never occurs, and that crossing over occurs only in
the four-strand stage between two chromatids, one from each

chromosome.
Chapter 10 that the percentage of
chiasmata (chiasma frequency) observed in a given region of a
chromosome in the prophase of the first meiotic division is twice
as great as the percentage of recombinations between two genes
It

was pointed out

in

Classical

Theory of Chiasmata

207

on either side of this region. This statement was based on the
assumption that crossing over occurs between only two chromatids at any one point and would not be true if all four chromatids, or if whole chromosomes, crossed over at one point.
It has been stated that crossing over occurs between one
chromatid of one chromosome and one chromatid of the other
chromosome. It might seem possible that the two chromatids
from the same chromosome might also cross over. The two
chromatids derived from the same chromosome are spoken of

I
a
Fig. 63,
(a)

Crossing

over and

the

resulting

the theory of total chiasmatypy and

(fc>)

chromosomes according to
the theory of partial chias-

matypy.
as sister chromatids whereas two chromatids from different ho-

mologues are called nonsister chromatids. The evidence indicates that crossing over occurs between nonsister chromatids
only and not between sister chromatids.
Classical Theory of Chiasmata

When seen under the microscope, all four chromatids of a
According to the partial chiasmatype theory, breaks occur at pachytene between two
bivalent are normally indistinguishable.

These two rejoin in a new arrangement, and chiasmata result which are observable when the threads open out
into loops at diplotene. According to this theory, every chiasma
of the four.

represents a place where a break occurred at pachytene.

As will

be seen from Fig. 646, sister threads are always paired and are
always found together at each side of a chiasma. Another and
older theory has also been suggested which

is

a basically dif-

ferent interpretation of the same observed phenomena.

Neither

theory can be proved on the basis of visual observation of normal bivalents alone, but the study of a heteromorphic bivalent

and of complex interlocking of bivalents shows that the theory

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

208
of partial

chiasmatypy more nearly represents the correct situ-

ation.

The older, or classical theory, assumes that crossing over does
not produce chiasmata, but that it is caused by chiasmata. According to this theory, when the four twisted chromatids open
out at diplotene they are still unbroken, and they open out in
such a manner that sister and nonsister threads are together
Partial

Classical

Theory

Chiasmatype
Theory

One
chiasma:

Three
chiasma

^^^^^^

"^

^^^^^

a
Fig. 64.

The

interpretation

of

chiasmata

according

to

the

classical

theory (a) and the theory of partial chiasmatypy (h).

Beginning at the centromere,
sister threads are together; if there is a chiasma on each side of
the centromere, nonsister threads would be together on the oppoalternately in successive loops.

These chiasmata produce
strains as the paired threads repel one another, and as a result
of the strains, some or all of the chiasmata break, producing
crossovers at the breaks. As the theory of partial chiasmatypy

site sides of each

chiasma

(Fig. 64a).

more generally accepted today, a detailed discussion of the
merits of the two theories and of the various arguments in supis

port of each is unnecessary.

Exactness of Crossing Over

One of the most significant features of crossing over is the
exactness with which
cross over.

it

occurs in the two chromatids which

This feature of crossing over cannot be emphasized

too strongly because

it

is

this fact that

makes genetic crossing

over so regular and permits the construction of linkage maps.

Exactness of Crossing Over

209

Occasionally, however, crossing over is not so precise; the chief

found at the locus of the so-called bar
"gene" (Fig. 65) in Drosophila melanogaster. The bar "gene"
is located between the loci of forked (/) and fused (fii).
Occasionally, when crossing over occurs between bar and one of these
genes, it is so inexact that the two bar "genes" are included in
the same chromatid, whereas the other chromatid has no bar
exception to the rule

is

Thus, if one chromatid has the genes forked,

"gene" (Fig. 66a).

and fused, and the other has
nonforked, bar, and nonfused, one
bar,

crossover chromatids might

of the

be forked, bar, bar, and nonfused,

and the other nonforked and fused.
Thus a new form, double bar, arises
which has the normally narrow eye
At
of bar even further reduced.
the same time recessive wild-type
(nonbar) flies appear even when the
_
.XI
origmal fly was homozygous for the
dominant "gene" for bar.
.

,

.

This

_
Fig. 65.

,

situation

for

was very puzzling,

long

a

for it

rule that crossing over

is

^^^^

^^

^,

The bar eve muDrosophila melano-

gaster.

time

seemed contradictory to the general
precise.

With the discovery

of the

salivary gland chromosomes, the bar locus could be examined

was then found that the bar "gene" was
not a gene, as we usually understand the term, but was the
result of reduplication of a small segment of one chromosome.
The wild-type fly has this segment, but it is reprecytologically.

sented
twice,

only

It

once.

In the

bar

fly,

this

segment

is

present

and these two duplicate segments follow one another im-

mediately on the chromosome.

Sometimes, in pairing, the lower

two segments of one chromosome happens to pair with
the upper segment of the homologous chromosome (Fig. 666).
of the

A crossover will then produce a chromatid with three segments,
or double bar, and one that has only one segment, and is reverted
bar.

Flies that are reverted bar are phenotypically like the

wild type.

What had once been an unexplainable situation can

now be understood as caused by a chromosomal aberration. Not
only does this duplicated segment illustrate why crossing over is

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

210

not exact at this locus, but
point

it

also explains another puzzling

—why homozygous, dominant bar-eyed

sionally produce the recessive, nonbarred type.

/-

B-

fu

\

- +

flies

can

occa-

Double Chiasmata
single

crossover

gametes;

there

211

would

be

no

noncrossover

gametes and no double crossover gametes. Reciprocal and complementary types taken together are known as compensating.
When one of the four chromatids is involved in the formation of both chiasmata and one is involved in neither, the type
There are
is known as noncompensating diagonal, or disparate.
two such types. If the two chromatids from one chromosome
are designated a and b, and the two chromatids of the other
chromosome are c and d, and if chromatids b and c exchange seg,

ments at the first chiasma, one of the two diagonal types would
arise if a and c formed the second chiasma the other type would
arise if the second chiasma were formed by an exchange between b and d. In each type of diagonal chiasmata, one noncrossover chromatid, two single crossovers, and one double crossover would be produced, but they would be different chromatids
in the two types.
As observed cytologically, these two types
show no difference, but if one chromosome contained a number
of dominant genes and the other chromosome their recessive
alleles, the two types would produce very different results
;

genetically.

An examination of these four types will show why crossing
over cannot exceed 50 per cent. If we assume that 2 given nonsister

chromatids form the

first

chiasma and that a second

chiasma can be formed at random between any 2 nonsister chromatids entirely independently of the

first

types will occur with equal frequency.

chiasma, the

four

When the 16 possible

chromatids are tabulated, 4 are found to be noncrossovers, 4 are
double crossovers, and 8 are single crossovers.

Since the two

chiasmata form between the two genes, the noncrossovers and
the double crossovers will appear as parental types whereas all
the single crossovers will be recombinations.
of 16 chromatids will be crossover types,

Thus only 8 out

and crossing over will

be 50 per cent (Fig. 67).
It might be interesting to consider the effect of three chiasmata

on the percentage of crossing over. If each chiasma may be
formed at random between any 2 nonsister chromatids, and if

formed between 2 given ones, there are sixteen possible arrangements of chiasmata and 64 possible chromatids. Of
these, 8 will be noncrossovers, 24 will be double crossovers, 24
the

first is

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

212
Diplotene

1 )

Configuration

Chromatids

Reciprocal

L

P
P

^2)

>

4 noncrossovers

Complementary

4 crossovers

3)

Diagonal -1

3\

P
2 crossovers

P

2 noncrossovers

(4)

DiagonaI-2

L
2 crossovers

2 noncrossovers

Total:

8 crossovers
8 noncrossovers

Fig. 67. Compound crossing over.
The four possibilities of chiasma
formation when two chiasmata are formed in one bivalent, and the chromatids produced from each type.
For explanation,
Mather in the Biological Reviews.)

see

text.

(Based on

Pairing without Chiasmata
will be single crossovers,

213

and 8 will be triple crossovers.

As all

and double crossovers appear as parental
types, whereas all the single and triple crossovers appear as
recombinations, there will be 32 parental and 32 recombination
chromatids, and crossing over will again be no greater than 50
the

noncrossovers

per cent.
If the two genes are so close on a chromosome that one chiasma
fails to

form between them in every meiocyte, that is, every cell

undergoing meiosis, the percentage of crossing over will be less
than 50. If one forms in every meiocyte, the percentage w^ill

For all the cells with two, three, or more chiasmata, the
percentage of crossover gametes that come from them will be 50.
Thus, although the percentage of crossing over may vary between none and 50, it can never exceed 50 no matter how many
chiasmata are formed. No matter how many chiasmata are
present, the number of gametes with an odd number of crossovers will equal the number with no crossovers or with an even
number.
Those with an odd number will be recombination
gametes; those with an even number or none wdll be parental
be 50.

gametes.

Pairing without Chiasmata

We mentioned in Chapter 10 that there is no crossing over in
the males of the Diptera or in the females of silkworms.

In

chromosomes appear to be paired at metaphase in a more or less normal fashion and they separate at
anaphase in a regular manner. This suggests two questions. If
there is no crossing over, are chiasmata formed? If there are
no chiasmata, what forces are responsible for chromosome pairing at the first meiotic metaphase? Answers have been given
by several investigators but they are not all in agreement.
In most plants and animals, the chromosomes during somatic
mitoses are distributed on the metaphase plate in a purely random manner with reference to one another so that a given chromosome does not tend to lie alongside its homologue any more
frequently than it lies next to any other chromosome. However,
in many of the Diptera, the two chromosomes of each homologue
spite

of this, the

Corresponding parts
of the two homologues lie opposite one another, but the chromo-

tend to lie near one another at metaphase.

somes are not actually

in contact at

any point.

Such an ar-

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

214

rangement of pairs of chromosomes has been termed somatic
pairing.
The exact cause of this somatic pairing has not been
determined but has been explained as resulting from exaggerated
forces of attraction.

In the male Drosophila, during the first meiotic division, there

no pairing at zygotene or chiasma formation at pachytene in
the autosomes and the peculiar pairing at metaphase has been
attributed by Darlington to the same type of forces responsible
Darlington, however, considers that the
for somatic pairing.
autosomes are unique in this respect and that the sex chromosomes pair by chiasmata. However, chiasma pairing between
the
and Y chromosomes cannot be considered entirely normal
for this pairing apparently occurs only between their homologous
inert regions and because two reciprocal chiasmata must always
form.
Since this reciprocal chiasma formation occurs only in
the inert region, it cannot be detected by genetic means, for the
There must always be
interchanged segment bears no genes.
two chiasmata in this inert region and they must always be
reciprocal, as any other arrangement would produce new chromatids which could be detected genetically, and such new chrois

X

matids never form.

Darlington's explanation for chromosome

pairing in such organisms, then, assumes two different mechan-

and one for the sex chromosomes.
It assumes, furthermore, that the sex chromosomes operate by
the usual meiotic mechanism but by a very restricted form of it
isms, one for the autosomes

that has some strong elements of improbability.

A theory for chromosome pairing which does not involve chiasmata has been suggested by Cooper for the male of Olfersia
bisulcata, a parasitic fly from Panama, and it has also been
In the Olfersia male are three
One type is large and V-shaped, one is

applied to Drosophila males.
pairs of autosomes.

long and rod-shaped, and the third is small and dot-like. There
are also a large submedian chromosome and a smaller median

X

and Y chromosomes. Since
one which are believed to be the
this relationship has not been proved conclusively, they are
designated as X' and Y'. During the somatic mitoses that precede meiosis, the autosomes show decided somatic pairing at
midprophase, although they do not pair through their entire
lengths.

The rod-shaped pair are associated only at their distal

regions whereas the V-shaped homologues are together at three

Pairing without Chiasmata

215

The short arm of each homologue is associated at one
interstitial region, and the longer arm at one interstitial region
and again at the end. At other regions on these chromosomes,
places.

the two arms either fail to attract or actually repel one another.

As prophase advances, the paired regions separate from one
another, and during metaphase they are not paired but tend to
lie next to each other on the equatorial plate.
The sex chromosomes do not pair during midprophase but they do lie next to
one another at metaphase.
During the first meiotic division in the males of Olfersia, at a
stage comparable to late diakinesis, the autosomes are associated
as bivalents at apparently the same regions where they were
joined during the somatic divisions.
The rod-shaped chromosomes are together at their distal region, whereas the V-shaped
ones are associated in three places and open out into two loops,
which gives this bivalent the appearance of one with three
chiasmata. The two dot-like autosomes lie very close to each
other, but the sex chromosomes are not paired and may frequently be widely separated in the nuclei. By late diakinesis,
however, the sex chromosomes are found associated together in
regions fairly close to the centromere.

At first metaphase, the two

dot-like autosomes are usually

separated from one another, but the other three pairs of chromo-

somes form bivalents. They are still paired, but not as in most
organisms, for they are held together not by chiasmata but by
small chromosomal segments, conjunctive segments, each of
which appears to have the power of adhering to the similar
segment of the homologous chromosome. Both the autosomes
and sex chromosomes behave as though they possessed one or

more of these relatively short conjunctive segments. They may
initiate the approach of the homologues and they are responsible
for their cohesion in bivalents.
Without them, chromosomes in
the male fly would not pair and therefore would not disjoin so
regularly at meiosis. They may also be the regions from which
emanate the hypothetical forces believed to be responsible for
somatic pairing.

It

has been further suggested that similar

conjunctive segments rather than reciprocal chiasmata are the
basis of the association of the

X and Y chromosomes of Dro-

sophila and that the autosomes associate as the result of essentially

the

same

forces,

but that these forces are distributed

Miscellaneous Linkage Topics

216

throughout the entire length of the autosomes of Drosophila
instead of being restricted to certain small, highly localized seg-

Cooper also suggests that these conjunctive segments
are nongenic, chromosomal organelles comparable to the centromere, matrix, and nucleolus organizers. He has named them

ments.

collochores.

Somatic Crossing Over
Is crossing over purely a phenomenon of meiosis or does it also

occur in somatic cells?

In most organisms, there is no evidence

that somatic crossing over occurs, and it is hardly to be expected
since the two chromosomes of a homologous pair do not attract

one another at prophase and since they line up on the equatorial
In Drosophila melanog aster,

plate independently of one another.

however, Stern has produced data that can hardly be explained
except by assuming somatic crossing over.

The opportunity for

such an occurrence w^ould be greater in Drosophila than in most

organisms because in the Diptera the homologous chromosomes
tend to lie alongside one another in ordinary somatic cells.

Somatic crossing over has been found between the genes y
(yellow body) and sn (singed bristles). The locus of y is at the
distal end of the
chromosome about sixty-six map units from
the centromere, whereas sn is twenty-one map units from yel-

X

Somatic crossing over
is increased by the presence of certain dominant genes known
If a fly is heterozygous for y and sn, having
as the minutes.
low, on the side nearer the centromere.

chromosome with y and sn from one parent and
one chromosome with the two wild-type alleles from the other

received one

parent, crossing over

may occur between one chromatid of one

somatic chromosome and one chromatid of the homologue (Fig.
68).

The two chromosomes may then line up on the metaphase

++
chromatid and a y sn chromatid go to one pole and the y + and
+ sn chromatids to the other pole, both cells will be wild-type
with respect to each pair of alleles. On the other hand, if a + +
and a + sn chromatid go to one pole and a
+ and a y sn chro-

plate in one of two ways.

If they are so oriented that a

?/

matid to the other, the latter will form a cell which has no wildtype allele for y. Such a cell would divide a number of times
They would be observable
to produce a group of such y cells.
phenotypically as a small area of yellow-colored body in the

Questions and Problems

217

normally gray body. Wherever such a somatic crossing over
took place a small yellow spot would be visible on the body of
the fly. Somatic crossing over, like pachytene crossing over, occurs in a four-strand stage between two nonsister chromatids.
It does not, however, form chiasmata, or, if it does, the chiasmata disappear before metaphase and do not affect the orienta-

chromosomes on the spindle.

tion of the

No Crossover
+

It does not, of course,

Crossover between y and sn
+
+ +
+

+

>

>

>

y sn
y sny

+

y sn >

sn

2II1J

Somatic
metaphase

y sn

y sn
+ sn y or y

sn

+

y

+ sn
y sn

Resulting
cells.

y

y sn
Wild Type

y sn

sn

+

Wild Type

D

Wild Type

y

+

+

sn

Wild Type
sn

y

+

y

sn

(

Wild Type

Yellow

Somatic crossing over between the loci of yellow and singed
Drosophila melanogaster. For explanation, see text.

Fig. 68.
in

have any effect on germinal tissue. Its results are immediate,
for daughter cells of the one in which the crossover occurred
will be phenotypically different from the normal cells, provided
that, as in this case, the part of the body affected is a part
under the control of the gene which crossed over.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Show by diagrams how a heteromorphic bivalent might be used to

give evidence in support of either the classical or the partial chiasma-

type theories.

Is the

evidence positive or negative?

If bar eye appears to be due to a reduplication of a small segment

2.

chromosome, does this have any possible bearing on the nature or

of a

existence of genes?
3.

Could somatic crossing over produce small areas with singed

bristle?

Show by a diagram.

218
4.

Miscellaneoits Linkage Topics

By diagrams, show the sixty-four possible chromatids when three

chiasmata form between two genes.

Tabulate noncrossovers,

single,

double, and triple crossovers.
5.

Show that, by applying the binomial theorem, the number of non-

crossover, single crossover, etc., chromatids may be easily calculated no

matter how many chiasmata form between two genes.

Chapter 14

THE NATURE OF AND CHANGES IN GENES
Some Properties of Genes
Since the early days in the study of genetics there has been

much speculation upon the physical and chemical properties of
Various suggestions have been offered as to their nature,
and approximations of their size and chemical constitution have
genes.

In prebeen hypothesized from different lines of evidence.
have
been
vious chapters certain generally recognized facts

brought out.

Some additional facts in regard to the nature and

behavior of genes are discussed in Chapters 15 through 22.

A prevalent view of the relation of genes to chromosomes has
The fundamental part of the

been well stated by Demerec.

chromosome is the long fiber-like chromonema.

This "thread,"

which extends the entire length of the chromosome, appears to
be the same chemically and physically throughout its length.
Furthermore, the chromonema of one chromosome is considered

chromonemata of the other
Since a chromonema appears to

to be identical in nature with the

chromosomes in the same cell.
be homogeneous, it must be concluded that the genes do not
form part of the chromonema. Although our knowledge of genes
and chromosomes is still in a rather hazy state, the chromonema
can be visualized as the backbone of the chromosome, but it
can be pictured as having a large number of side "branches"
protruding from it and approximately at right angles to it
throughout its length. Chemical radicals appear to attach them-

chromonema, and these attached radicals may be different chemically from one another.
selves to these "branches" of the

This attached material, therefore, differentiates various sections

These units, which are
different from one another chemically and are attached to the
chromonemata, appear to be the genes. It is interesting in this
connection to note that when the chromosomes of Drosophila
are bombarded with X-rays they may be broken at various

of the

chromosome into different units.

219

The Nature of and Changes in Genes

220

places and the breaks occur purely at random.

This fact seems

chromonema, which is the structure affected by the X-rays, is the same for all parts of all the
to indicate that the string-like

chromosomes. It is true for both euchromatic or heterochromatic regions, for the differentiation of the chromosome into
these two regions is not due to a difference in the chromonema
''backbone" but to the material which attaches itself to the

chromonema.
Active and Inert Regions of the Chromosome

As mentioned in Chapter 5, the chemical nature of the active
and of the apparently inert regions of a chromosome seems to be
somewhat different. The active regions are generally said to be
made up of euchromatin (that is, true chromatin) whereas the
inactive regions are composed of heterochromatin. The relative
proportions of these two substances differ, however, in such
chromosomes as the giant salivary gland chromosomes of Drosophila and other somatic chromosomes of the same individual.
The giant chromosomes have a relatively smaller amount of
heterochromatin than the chromosomes of most body cells, and
the heterochromatic material at the centromeres of all the sali-

vary gland chromosomes of Drosophila is united into the chromocenter.

Just

why the heterochromatic region is proportion-

ately larger than the euchromatic region in ordinary mitotic

chromosomes is not clear, but Waddington suggests as a tentative hypothesis that there may be an abnormally large concentration of nucleic acid on the chromosome in somatic mitoses.
The property that chromosomes exhibit of staining deeply
with "nuclear" stains is apparently the result of the presence on
the chromosome of nucleic acid.

In the salivary gland chromo-

somes of Drosophila, the euchromatin stains more deeply than
the heterochromatin because it has more nucleic acid, but in the

same individuals, both the euchromatin and the heterochromatin seem to have a high nucleic acid
content and to stain uniformly very deeply. Darlington and La
Cour showed that although the euchromatin of the plants Paris
and Trillium contains a large amount of nucleic acid during
metaphase and anaphase of mitosis, it begins to lose some of this
nucleic acid during anaphase so that at telophase the amount of
nucleic acid is considerably less than it had been at metaphase.
mitotic chromosomes of the

Active and Inert Regions of the Chromosome

221

During the resting stage which follows, the euchromatin has almost no nucleic acid. During the following cell division, the
amount of nucleic acid in the euchromatic regions begins to
increase at prophase and reaches the maximum again in the
metaphase and anaphase of this division. Although the heterochromatin also contains its maximum amount of nucleic acid at
metaphase and anaphase, it does not lose so much during telophase and has a fairly high content even during the resting stage.
Consequently, with nuclear stains, the chromosomes at metaphase and anaphase are stained uniformly deeply, whereas, during the resting stage, the heterochromatin alone becomes stained.

Studies on Fritillaria pudica show that, during the resting stage,

the heterochromatic parts of the chromosomes not only obtain
all

the nucleic acid and therefore become very deeply stained,

but they may also fuse to give branched structures.
reason,

the

number

of

For that

deeply staining bodies in the resting

nucleus does not always correspond to the number of hetero-

chromatic parts of the chromosomes.
Since both the euchromatin and heterochromatin contain large

amounts of nucleic acid when the chromosomes are in metaphase
and anaphase, these chromosomes are normally stained evenly
and appear to have a smooth outline. Darlington and La Cour,
however, have shown that the heterochromatic regions of Fritillaria pudica, Paris, and Trillium can be differentiated from the
euchromatic regions by keeping the plants at a temperature
below 3° centigrade and by allowing them to undergo mitosis
at that temperature.
The low temperature reduces the amount
of nucleic acid in the nucleus. Normally, there is enough of this
material for all the parts of the chromosomes, but in the coldtreated plants, the amount is reduced to such an extent that
there is no longer a sufficiency. During mitosis of plants raised
at these low temperatures, the reduced amount of available
nucleic acid is taken up by the euchromatin and, therefore, the
heterochromatin has less than it has normally. As a result, the
euchromatic regions of the mitotic chromosomes during metaphase and anaphase become stained very deeply, whereas the
heterochromatic regions are stained less deeply and seem thinner,
appearing as slight constrictions (Fig. 69). Apparently there is
considerable variability in the nucleic acid content of the hetero-

The Nature of and Changes in Genes

222

chromatin of cold-treated plants, for comparable results were not

found in other species of Fritillaria.

The difference in the amount and position of the heterochromatin in the chromosomes of various species of Drosophila is
very interesting. In the most familiar one, and the one that
we have cited most frequently, D. melanogaster about one-third
,

Fig. 69.

Chromosomes in metaphase of mitosis in the pollen grains of a
The plant was subjected to cold for over three

triploid Fritillaria pudica.

As a result, the production or distribution of nucleic acid is hindthe available nucleic acid is seized by the euchromatin. The
and
ered
heterochromatin in such chromosomes stains much less heavily and is represented by the light areas in the figure, (From Darlington and La Cour
in the Journal of Heredity. Courtesy of Dr. C. D. Darlington.)
weeks.

of the

X chromosomes and up to one-sixth of each arm of each

autosome is heterochromatic. In the salivary glands, all the
chromosomes are united to the chromocenter, which is made up
almost equally of material from the X chromosome and the
two large, V-shaped autosomes. The chromosomal picture of D.
simulans is practically the same.
half the length of each

In D. virilis, a little less than

chromosome is heterochromatic, and all

chromosomes contribute almost equally to the chromocenter.
Very different from these is D. hydei. In this species the X
chromosome is V-shaped; one arm appears to be entirely hetero-

Prochromosomes

223

chromatic and the other has just a small heterochromatic region

Apparently the autosomes have no heterochromatin or just a very small section near the centromere.
at the centromere.

X

In D. pseudoobscura, the
chromosome also contains two
arms which unite to form a V-shaped structure. One of these

arms has a large amount of heterochromatin, but the other arm
of the
chromosome and two autosomes have considerably less.
The third autosome and the small autosome corresponding to
chromosome IV of D. melanogaster are mostly euchromatic. A
still different situation is found in D. funebris, which has a long
rod-shaped X chromosome, about half of which is heterochromatic, and four pairs of rod-shaped autosomes w^hich have very

X

small regions of heterochromatin near the centromeres.

In D. pallidipennis, a recently discovered species from Brazil,

Dobzhansky showed that all the heterochromatin is concentrated
in the X and Y chromosomes except for a few interstitial sections in the autosomes.
In this species, the X and Y chromosomes are enormous and consist chiefly of heterochromatin. The
centromere ends of the autosome have little heterochromatin, if
any, and all the autosomes are only occasionally connected with
the chromocenter in the salivary gland nuclei.
is

Frequently there

an association of two, three, or four of the autosomes by their

bases, and one, two, three, or four autosomes may be in contact

with the heterochromatin of the

X chromosome there

X chromosome by their bases.

no sharp boundary between the
heterochromatin and the euchromatin, and many discs appear
to be heterochromatic in some cells and of euchromatin in others.
In the

is

Prochromosomes
In the resting nuclei of many organisms, a number of deeply
staining bodies have been observed which frequently correspond
to the

number of chromosomes seen during mitosis.

They ap-

pear to be segments of chromosomes that have remained condensed and must have a high nucleic acid content. Various terms

have been applied to them, but those most commonly used are
prochromosomes and chromocentric regions. They are probably
heterochromatic regions of chromosomes. That they exist frequently in the same number as the chromosomes would indicate
that each chromosome in many species has just one large hetero-

The Nature of and Changes in Genes

224

chromatic region, probably located around the centromere. Where
the prochromosomes are more numerous than the metaphase

chromosomes, the chromosomes undoubtedly have more than
one large heterochromatic region. In the cold-treated plants of
Paris and Trillium, a

number

of heterochromatic

regions

of

various sizes are found in the metaphase chromosomes, and this

agreement with the number of condensed
chromocenters observed in the resting stage. When the number
of chromocenters or prochromosomes is fewer than the number

number

is

in

close

of chromosomes or of heterochromatic regions, it is undoubtedly

because two or more of these regions have fused together in
the resting cell.

Salivary Chromosome Bands
It is interesting to speculate on the possibility that each

in a salivary gland chromosome is a

band

gene, but, unfortunately,

the experimental evidence on this point is not yet so clear as is
desirable.

There

are,

however, several lines of evidence that

For one thing,
it has been shown that genes are found in greatest numbers in
point to the view that a

band is a gene locus.

the deeply staining euchromatic regions of the salivary gland

chromosomes, whereas very few are found in heterochromatic
regions. Similarly, most of the bands are in these euchromatic
regions and very few are located in regions predominantly het-

erochromatic.

The frequent association of missing bands with

changes in the phenotype of the affected fly also lends support
to this view.

A study of notch deficiencies caused by X-radia-

tion indicates that there

which

will

within it.

is

a field or area of the

produce a notch phenotype

if

chromosome

a break

is

induced

The position in the chroniosome of a number of such

breaks within the area or field indicates that a certain band is

approximately in the center of this field and provides additional
evidence in support of the position that bands are associated
with

loci.

If this

association can be

assumed as a working

some notion of the maximum size of a gene can be
Measurements show that these bands vary between
obtained.
If a band is a gene, or if it
0.2 lUfi and 1 m/t in thickness.
contains the gene, the gene must be no greater in width than

hypothesis,

the width of a band.

Types of Mutations

225

Mutations and Fluctuations
Strains that are apparently

homozygous sometimes produce

individuals different in appearance from the usual type.

Often

such individuals result from different environmental conditions.
Differences, which are the direct result of changes in the en-

Environmental differences of
this sort act only on the body, or soma, of the individual and do
not affect the germ cells. They are therefore not inherited and
are of no consequence in the
vironment, are called fluctuations.

study

show that
sults

all

except

genetics

of

for

to

comparable re-

the individuals must

have as nearly the same environment as possible.
Sometimes, however, the new
types

appear

that

may

not

be the result of any environ-

mental influence and they may
X
transmit i-u
their new characters to
-J.

,

•

1

J.

subsequent generations.
nonenvironmental,

Such

heritable,

Fig. 70.

eye

,

type

.^^.^^^

and

The head of the whiter

oi

r^
Drosopnila
i

Contrast with

-i

i

melano-

Figs.

6,

7,

65.

suddenly appearing, new types
are mutations and are of great importance in the study of genetics.

An example of such a new form is the white eye mutation of

Drosophila melanogaster.
flies,

In a stock of true-breeding red-eyed

a fly with white eyes (Fig. 70) suddenly appeared for no

known reason.

When this fly was mated to red-eyed flies, the

were determined by a
recessive gene located in the
chromosome. This new type was
inherited and was a mutation.. Discovered by Morgan in 1910,
it was the first sex-linked mutation that appeared in Drosophila
white-eye character behaved as

if

it

X

cultures.

Types of Mutations

new types may appear suddenly and
without any traceable cause and that they may be inherited was
The

possibility

that

suggested by de Vries in 1901 as the result of some observations

on the evening primrose, Oenothera Lamarckiana.

He

showed that this plant occasionally but regularly produces new

226

The Nature of and Changes in Genes

mutations or "sports" (Fig. 71) and suggested that these new
types are a greater factor in evolution than the small, gradual

changes which Darwin had thought were so important.
that time, mutations have been discovered in a great

Since

many

plants and animals.

(a) Flower of
Fig. 71. Buds and flowers of the evening primrose,
Oenothera Lamarckiana. (b) Mutant substella of Shull; note the style and
stigma above the small petals, (c) Mutant confusa of Shull; in this mutant
the stigmas and stamens are massed together in such a way as to occupy
completely the lumen of the bud cone at the stigmatic level forming a
barrier to the elongation of the petals; the buds open broadly between two
sepals, merely split between the others, and the petals never spread. These
two mutants are new. (Courtesy of Dr. G. H. Shull.)

Many of the

new types

have appeared in
various organisms were subsequently shown to be recombinations of previously known genes, such as the "outside-in" type
of flower in the Evening Primrose which resulted from the combination of the recessive genes supplena (double flowers) (Fig.
inherited

that

and brevistylis (short style) never previously together in the
same plant (Fig. 73). Other new inherited types have resulted
from changes in the number of chromosomes or from rearrangements of, losses of, or duplications of chromosomal segments, and
72)

,

they have been classified as anomozygous mutations.

Still

other

Gene Mutations

227

newly appearing, inherited types are the result of actual changes
in the genes themselves and are known as gene mutations.
Although these three types have all frequently been classed
as mutations, since they all appear suddenly

the

and are inherited,

word mutation has more recently been used largely in the

Fig. 72,

A double-flowered

homozygous recessive tj'pe.

Oenothera;

mutant supplena

of

Shull,

a

(Courtesy of Dr. G. H. Shull.)

Throughout this book, however, it is used for all inheritable changes unless preceded by a

restricted sense of gene mutations.

qualifying adjective.

Gene Mutations

A gene mutation is the result of a change in the structure of
an individual gene.
it

It is also

known as a point mutation, since

involves a change at only one point or locus in the chromo-

somes of the organism.

Gene mutation is one of the most important if not the most
important factor in the origin of new species.

Other factors

are also involved in speciation, but gene mutations provide the

The Nature of and Changes in Genes

228

new material on which these other factors can act.

An accumu-

lation of independent mutations has often resulted in an organism

so distinct

from its ancestors that it has been classed as a new

species.

types of Oenothera. Right, Oe. Lamarckiana of
Next left, brevistylis, homozygous recessive for the
gene for short style, SpSp brbr. Second from left, supplena, homozygous recesFig. 73.

Pistils of five

the genotype SpSp BrBr.

sive for the gene for double flowers, spsp BrBr. Center, "outside in," the double

recessive spsp brbr.

Genes sp and br are complementary for the outside-in

type of flower, which type is not merely the summation of the effects pro-

duced by the two genes alone. In each of these illustrations the petals
and sepals and the set of stamens have been removed, leaving only the
gynoecium or its homologue. The big central bud in "outside in" is therefore the homologue of the functional stjde of supplena and brevistylis.
Left, mutant pollicata, a homozygous recessive with a solid floral tube or
hypanthium. (Courtesy of Dr. G. H. Shull.)

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Are there any chemical differences between euchromatin and hetCan you suggest any methods to show whether genes are

erochromatin ?

located exclusively in euchromatic or in heterochromatic regions?
2.

do,

Prepare to discuss viruses, bringing out what they are, what they

and where they might be found.

Discuss the possibility of obtain-

Questions and Problems

229

ing them in crystalline form and the philosophical implications of such

a discovery.

Has any possible relation between viruses and genes ever

been suggested?
3.

What effect did the theory of mutations have on the theory of

evolution ?
4.

What would be the state of our knowledge of the transmission of

genes if gene mutation had never occurred?
5.

tion ?

Explain.

Does a newly appearing phenotype always indicate a point mutaExplain.

Chapter 15

THE NATURE OF GENE MUTATIONS
It is difficult to state exactly how a gene mutation occurs until

more is known of the structure and chemistry of the genes themselves.

If genes can be pictured as molecules or as large chemical

radicals that are attached to an undifferentiated thread, they are

probably complex radicals with numerous side chains.

One the-

ory suggests that the mutation is the result of a rearrangement
of some of the atoms of the molecule or radical which constitutes

the gene.

It is also possible, as has been suggested, that a part

of a molecule might be lost.

According to these views, the gene
is a more or less distinct entity with its own complex structure
and a mutation is merely a loss or rearrangement of intramolecuAccording to another theory the chromosome as
whole
is
a
to be regarded as the unit of heredity and the socalled gene mutations are merely rearrangements of segments
of the chromosome. This rearrangement is discussed further in
Chapter 17.
The kinds of changes that mutations may produce in the
phenotype of an organism are countless. In both plants and
animals, all parts of the organism may be affected, and each
part may be affected in many different ways. Mutations are
known which affect the shape, size, and color of almost every
known organ of plants and animals, and some have been found

lar material.

which affect even such characteristics as the stability of another
gene, the mutation rate of other genes, spindle formation at
meiosis, viability

of

gametes, incompatibility of certain eggs

and sperm, and other similar fundamental biological processes.
Finally, in many organisms, mutations have arisen which lead
to the death of the individual by upsetting normal embryological
development or by affecting certain fundamental organs or physiological processes.

Although some mutations produce rather large and striking
effects, many mutations produce small effects, as was shown by
230

Harmful Nature of Mutations

231

some extensive studies on Drosophila and on the snapdragon.
It is probably true of most if not all organisms.

Harmful Nature of Mutations

Most gene mutations have been shown to be harmful to the
organism to a greater or lesser extent when the mutant is compared with its wild type. Often it is true only because the mutant and the wild type are compared in an environment to

which the wild type has become adjusted over the course of
thousands of years. For example, flies with vestigial wings cannot compete successfully with their long-winged contemporaries
in a normal environment because the "normal" environment frequently requires the

fly to

cover longer distances in search of

food than the vestigial fly can negotiate.

In situations where

food is abundant, as in laboratory bottles, the ability to fly long
distances

is

and vestigials can compete
Often a mutation is "harmful" only be-

of no great advantage,

on more equal terms.
cause the wild type has evolved into such a balanced state of
equilibrium with a particular environment that any deviation
from this condition would tend to be in the direction of an unbalance.

In addition to mutations which put the organism at a disadvantage in competition, there are many that have a more or less

on the viability of the organism. Dobzhansky
has pointed out, however, that although most mutations that
have appeared in Drosophila cultures decrease the viability of
the fly under the usual conditions in which the flies are raised,
mutations in Drosophila and in other organisms show a range
from lethals at the one extreme through less harmful and neutral
mutations to mutations at the other extreme which actually are
harmful

effect

favorable to viability.

Whether a gene is actually harmful depends in part upon the
other genes present in the organism and in part upon the environment. Morgan and Tice showed that if a fly was segregating into wild types and recessives, the recessive types would
often appear in fewer numbers than expected when large numbers of flies were raised from mass cultures in the same bottle.
However, if only one female parent was placed in a large culture
bottle and the amount and quality of the food were adjusted to
optimum conditions, the mutant type would usually appear in

The Nature of Gene Mutations

232

That the environment is a factor in
the viability of a mutant was also shown by Timofeeff-Ressov-

the expected percentage.

sky, who found that certain mutants would be much less viable

than the wild type at certain temperatures but would be as viable

and sometimes more viable at other temperatures. He showed
also that not only is the environment important but the other
genes as well. For example, at 24 to 25° centigrade, miniature
flies are only 69 per cent as viable as the wild type whereas the
bobbed mutants are 85 per cent as viable; flies that are both
miniature and bobbed, however, are 97 per cent as viable as
the wild type or more viable than either mutant type alone.
Sterility

Some mutations tend to make one or both sexes sterile.

In

Drosophila melanogaster, the gene rudimentary produces a wing

abnormality and also affects egg development so that the females
are highly sterile, only occasionally producing any eggs at all in

Similarly the genes fused and morula produce ste-

the ovary.
rility in

the female in addition to affecting the wing veins and

the facets of the eye.

Recessive Nature of Mutations
In Table 4 is a list of some of the genes that have been dis-

covered in Drosophila melanogaster, arranged according to the
Following each
four chromosomes on which they are located.

gene

is

its

symbol.

All these genes have arisen as mutations

from the wild-type fly and almost all are believed to be gene
mutations although a few, including bar eye and hairy wing,
are the result of the reduplication of a very small segment of a

symbol of a mutant gene begins with a
lower-case letter, the mutant is recessive to the wild type; but
A
if it begins with a capital letter, the mutant is dominant.
glance over the list shows that most of the mutant genes are
chromosome.

If the

recessive to the wild type.

A far greater number of recessive

than dominant mutants have been discovered in Drosophila
melanogaster, and they also have been observed in other species
of fruit fly and in a number of other animals. In organisms in

which there is no definite wild type, as in many plants, most
of the mutants that have been discovered are recessive to the

Mutation and the Life Cycle
type from which they arose.

233

To sum up, then, most mutants are

recessive to the original stock.

Mutation and the Life Cycle

A gene mutation may occur at any stage of the life cycle of a
plant or an animal, and therefore in sporophytic or gametophytic

and in somatic or germinal tissue. Unless and until the mutation
is followed by a further mutation or by a reverse mutation of
the same gene, all the cells derived from the cell in which the
mutation occurred will contain the mutant gene.
If a gene mutation occurred in only one gamete, that gamete
and the individual which resulted from it after fertilization
would have the mutant gene. If the new gene affected somatic
tissue and was a dominant mutation, the new character would
be noted immediately in the individual produced by the mutated
gamete. If the mutation was recessive, it would be hidden unless
it was in the sex chromosome of the heterogametic sex.
If the nonlethal mutation occurred in one member of a pair of
homologous chromosomes before meiosis or before the "chromosome split" took place, half the gametes or half the megaspores
or microspores from the meiocytes in which the mutation occurred would bear the mutated gene.
In plants it would be
carried through the gametophyte and gametes to the new sporophyte. If it was a gene that exerted an effect on the gametophyte, it would be detected immediately whether it was a dominant or a recessive mutation since the gametophyte is haploid.
If the character produced by the mutant was a character that
was visible in the sporophyte only, it would not show up in the
gametophyte and would appear in the sporophyte only if it was
dominant. If the mutation was recessive, it would be hidden in
the sporophyte, but would appear in the next sporophyte generation in about one-quarter of the offspring of that plant, pro-

vided the plant was self-fertilized.

It is frequently difficult to

say just when or in what particular individual a mutation occurred if it was recessive and affected only the diploid stage of
the life cycle, and if the plant or animal was one that was normally cross-fertilized. Such mutations might remain hidden for
several generations.

Mutations may occur in somatic tissue at any stage and in any
part of the developing organism.
If a mutation occurred in

The Nature of Gene Mutations

234

the zygote, the whole animal or plant sporophyte would have
the mutant gene and would show that mutant character if it was
a dominant mutation.

one of the two

cells

If,

however, the mutation occurred in

that result from the

first

division of the

zygote, only half the organism would have the new gene.

If the

mutation occurred late in somatic development, only those cells
derived by division from the mutant cell would have the mutant gene; one or more patches of mutant tissue would be found
in the body of the individual, if it was a dominant mutation or
if it was a mutation in the
chromosome or Z chromosome of

X

the heterogametic sex.

The number of patches would depend

upon the number of cells of the immature organism in which the
mutation occurred and the size of the patches would depend
upon the stage of development of the individual in which the
mutation arose.
Although mutations have been observed at various stages of
development, they seem to occur with greater frequency at some
times than at others.

The time of greatest frequency is just

before or during meiosis, apparently in both plants and animals.

Evidence

is

based on the fact that dominant mutations and

mutations that occur in the

X or Z chromosomes (that

is,

muta-

immediate offspring) appear
mutation had occurred
early in germinal tissue, a much larger number of mutated
gametes and therefore of mutant phenotypes would be expected.

tions that can be detected in the

generally in only one individual.

If the

Bud Mutations
One class of somatic mutations in plants is of considerable
importance from an agricultural and horticultural point of view.
This type, known as a bud mutation or bud sport, occurs in the
meristematic tissue of a bud.

If the mutation occurs in the earli-

est stages of bud development, all or practically all the cells of the

bud will be mutant in nature; and when the bud develops into a
shoot, all the cells of the shoot will be of the mutant type. If
the mutation occurs later in development, only some of the cells
will be mutant.
The bud will therefore be part mutant and
part nonmutant, and the shoot which arises from such a bud will
likewise be made up of two kinds of tissue, mutant and nonmutant. A shoot which is thus a mixture of two or more genotypically different tissues is a chimera.

Frequency of Gene Mutations

235

Somatic mutations, whether they are bud sports in which the
whole bud is mutant tissue or are chimeras, are produced by the

same causes that produce mutations in general.

A small per-

centage may be the result of recombination resulting from somatic crossing over (fruit flies with small patches of yellow and
singed tissue in an otherwise normal body are a form of chi-

mera)

;

a very large number may arise from chromosomal aber-

rations of various kinds;

many are due to gene mutations.

Somatic mutations in animals are lost with the death of the
individual in which they occur, but bud mutations in many plants

may be preserved indefinitely by means of vegetative reproducand sometimes by seeds produced by the mutated branch.
An excellent example is the bud mutation of the peach which
tion

produces the smooth-skin type
nectarine behaves as a recessive

known as the nectarine. The
when crossed with the peach;

but peach trees occasionally produce nectarine bud sports, and
occasional bud mutations on a nectarine tree result in branches

which bear peaches.
In some plants, propagation
ding or grafting.

is

carried out chiefly

by bud-

In such plants, bud sports are propagated by

inserting buds from the

mutated branch into other trees which
are used as a stock. Bud mutations from the Washington navel
orange are perpetuated in this way. A variety that often arises
as a bud mutation is the Thomson strain, but these trees frequently produce one or more fruits of the Washington strain,
showing that bud mutations in these varieties are produced in
both directions.

The occurrence of the same somatic mutation at various stages
in the development of a bud or shoot is also illustrated by the
navel orange.

If the

mutation occurs early in the development

of the bud, the whole limb will be of a

bear the mutant type of fruit.
in the cells that produce

If,

mutant nature and will

however, the mutation occurs

merely a single fruit, just one fruit on

the limb will be of the mutant type.

Frequency of Gene Mutations

The problem of the frequency of gene mutations is not an
easy one to solve. With wild populations it is complicated by
natural selection, for harmful mutations would tend to be eliminated in competition with the nonmutant, better-adapted genes.

The Nature of Gene Mutations

236

In laboratory stocks, natural selection is not an important factor; but there are certain technical

problems that present difficulties when we try to follow the mutation rate of any specific
gene.
The evidence from mutations in some organisms shows
that perhaps the most frequent mutations are those that produce

Such small mutations are extremely difficult
wild populations, and even in controlled cultures

only slight effects.
to detect in

they make a complete analysis almost impossible.

As genes are

ordinarily very stable, a determination of the mutation rate of

most genes would begin to be accurate only when very large
numbers of individuals were raised and examined. Although
populations of necessary size would be possible in Drosophila,
they would ordinarily be impractical, and they would be almost
out of the question for plants and for most animals. In spite
of the difficulties, a surprisingly large amount of data has been
obtained both from wild populations of Drosophila in parts of
chromosome of laboraRussia and for lethal mutations in the
tory stocks of Drosophila melanog aster.
The data that have been collected show that most genes are
very stable, but that gene mutation cannot be considered to be a
rare event. The actual mutation rate of a gene depends (1) on
the particular gene in question, (2) on the species, (3) on the
environment in which the organism is living, and (4) on the

X

entire genetic constitution of the organism.

Some genes are exceedingly stable; others mutate frequently.

A genetic locus cannot be identified unless at least two alleles
at that locus are observed.
loci

in

Since estimates of the

number of

various organisms indicate that most loci have never

been discovered, the inference
that they do not mutate at

is

all

that most genes are so stable
or that they

mutate so infre-

quently that the few mutants never chanced to be found.
this extreme case, various mutation rates

can be found.

From
Stadler

showed that in maize this difference may range from the condition at the waxy locus where no mutations were observed in one

and a half million tested gametes to the locus of the gene for
colored aleurone and plant, R, which mutated at a rate of 492
per million tested gametes. Various intermediates were found.
At the other extreme from the very stable genes are a number
of genes which mutate so frequently that they are known as
mutable genes or unstable genes.

Mutable Genes

237

Mutable Genes
In 1914, Emerson suggested that some genes might not be
completely stable.
He studied a variegated variety of maize
that had a white pericarp with numerous red spots of varying
size.

Genetically, these plants were homozygous for the recessive

gene for white.

Emerson considered that

this

gene must be

can mutate spontaneously into the dominant
for red, and that each red spot on the kernel is made

unstable, that
allele

it

up of cells which came from one cell in which such a mutation
arose.
This was a very revolutionary idea at that time. More
recently, Jones has found other spotted kernels in maize which
he believes are caused by somatic gene mutations of a similar
nature.
In Jones's material, six colored spots that were found
on otherwise colorless seeds were composed of six to forty-three
colored aleurone cells. These cells were similar in size, shape,
and color to the aleurone cells of a colored variety of the genotype AC R Pr, although the particular strain was homozygous
for c.
The suggestion was made that gene c has mutated to C
upon these six occasions and that each colored spot represents
one somatic mutation from the recessive to the dominant allele.
Since Emerson's discovery of mutable genes, several others
have been found, the best known of which are the rose- and
purple-variegated races of Delphinium and the miniature character of Drosophila virilis. The rose-variegated race is homozygous for the recessive gene, rose-a.*

Flowers of this race are

rose-colored but flecked with numerous dots and small spots of
purple.

The

rose color

is

the expression of the

homozygous

rose-a gene, but each spot of purple is the result of a mutation of

one of the rose-a genes to its dominant allele for purple.
a gene mutates to purple in a

cell,

that

cell

When

and all the others

which come from it by cell division will be purple, for apparently
the gene does not mutate back to rose-a.

If a

mutation occurs

just at the last cell division, the purple spot will include only one
cell.

If it takes place at the division before the last, the spot

* Mutant alleles were originally designated by the name of the mutant followed by a Greek letter, as miniature-alpha, miniature-beta, and miniaturegamma. Because of the inconvenience in typewriting manuscripts and the
added expense of printing that the use of the Greek alphabet entails, the
Greek letters have recently been replaced by Roman letters, as miniature-a,
miniature-b, and miniature-c.

238

The Nature of Gene Mutations

formed from two cells. In other words, the earlier the
mutation occurs in the development of a flower, the larger the
purple patch. Therefore, the time at which the mutation occurred can be determined fairly accurately from the size of the

will be

mutated area.
All these mutations

are somatic mutations in

cells

of the

flower, but Demerec has found evidence that this same gene mu-

germ cells as well. When a rose-a plant was selffertilized, most of the offspring had typical rose-a variegated
flowers.
Some, however, had solid purple flowers, and a small
percentage had large purple sectors or chimeras in an otherwise
normal rose-variegated flower. The purple-flowered plants are
believed to have arisen as the result of gene mutations in the
formation of germ cells. If one rose-a gene mutated to purple
at that stage, one germ cell would have the dominant gene for
purple and a plant which arose from it would have purple
tates in

Plants with large purple chimeras in the flowers are
believed to have resulted from somatic mutations very early in
flowers.

In the sepals of normal rosevariegated plants, the rate of mutability of the rose-a gene was
the development of the flower.

same during the last twelve cell generations in
the development of the flower. In gametogenesis, the rate was
practically the

found to be 267 per million cells, a value close to that for the
It is interesting to note that
rate of mutability in the sepals.

from a plant which was heterozygous for rose-a and lilac. Since all the subsequent plants came
from this one, all w^ere the descendants of one rose-a gene.
Another gene that is unstable in Delphinium ajacis is the
Lavender-variegated
gene.
(or lavender-alpha)
lavender-a
flowers have numerous small spots of purple on a lavender background. These spots are the result of many somatic mutations
this rose-a strain originated

of the lavender-a gene to the dominant allele for purple in plants

homozygous for that recessive gene. That all the dots are small
and of approximately the same size indicates that this gene has
a high rate of mutability towards the end of the development of

the sepals and petals.

Differing from rose-a, lavenderra flowers

This
have no large or intermediate-sized spots or streaks.
absence of any purple spots other than small dots indicates that
the gene is stable or that it mutates at only a very low rate
during all but the last stages of development of the flower. Like

Mutable Genes

239

the rose-a gene, this gene can also mutate to the dominant allele

during the formation of germ cells.

Lavender-variegated plants

have been found with very large purple sectors sometimes
amounting, apparently, to half the plant. Such chimeras represent gene mutations during very early embryonic development
Mutations at those stages are frequent in the
of the plant.
lavender line but are rare in the rose strains.

The lavender gene

changes with high frequency very early and very late in ontogeny and is constant or mutates with a very low frequency at
other stages.

The rose-a gene appears to mutate at a virtually

uniform rate throughout the whole life cycle.
In Drosophila virilis, the recessive gene, miniature-3 produces

As this gene is unstable, however, flies
with wild-type patches on an otherwise miniature wing have
been observed, and each patch indicates a somatic mutation
from the recessive to the dominant condition. Some flies from

miniature-winged flies.

miniature-3 parents have completely wild-type wings.
flies,

In such

the mutation from recessive to dominant occurred in the

formation of germ cells instead of in somatic tissue.

Most of the mutations which occur in unstable genes are from
the recessive to the dominant and almost always are from the

mutant type to the wild type. Sometimes, however, the mutation is not to the dominant but to a third allele, which is also
unstable. This condition is well illustrated by considering all the
recessive alleles

There are

five

at the miniature
alleles

locus

in Drosophila

virilis.

at this locus other than the wild-type

and each produces a miniature wing of a different size.
Miniature-1, miniature-2, and miniature-4 are normal, stable
genes, mutating very infrequently, whereas miniature-3 and
miniature-5 are unstable. Furthermore, each of these two unalleles,

stable genes exists in three forms.

expression

is

In each gene, the phenotypic

the same, but the degree of stability

is

different.

The "alpha" or "a" form of each gene is unstable in both germinal and somatic tissue; the "gamma" or "c" form is unstable
in somatic tissue; and the "beta" or "b" form does not revert
to the wild type in either kind of tissue.

In these forms, muta-

tions occur not only to the wild-type allele but also to one of

the other forms of the same

allele.

This series suggests, as

Demerec has pointed out, that each allele at the miniature locus

240

The Nature of Gene Mutations

differs from the others by a different structural component of the

gene molecule and that the different forms of the same allele
merely vary slightly within the same component.

That some genes mutate relatively frequently and are called
"unstable" should not be interpreted to mean that frequent mutability is a hit-or-miss proposition and that genes may sud-

denly indulge in a wild orgy of mutation at any time. Such is
We have pointed out that the "alpha,"
far from the truth.
"beta," and "gamma" forms mutate at certain stages of the life
cycle only.

A great regularity in mutation rate is observed at

certain stages when the rose-a

and lavender-a genes are studied,
and the reddish-a gene in Drosophila virilis is found to mutate
only at meiosis in heterozygotes. Such regular behavior indicates that mutation in mutable genes is a well-ordered process.
Mutable genes appear to become unstable only when a certain
stage in the development of an organism is attained, and the
precise stage appears to vary with different mutable genes.
Different Mutation Rates in Different Species

The rate of gene mutation in one species is not necessarily the
same as in another. Baur has indicated that it is about 10 per
cent in the snapdragon but that most of these mutations produce

In Drosophila, Schultz found that the
mutation rate of sex-linked lethals was 0.18 per cent, whereas

only very small changes.

Spencer found the rate of visible mutations to be about 0.005
per cent.

In maize cultures, a large number of mutant genes

has been discovered.

The rate varies considerably for individual

genes, and some mutations have turned up again and again.

In

the evening primrose, on the other hand, although the investiga-

have been extensive, only a few gene mutations have appeared and no gene mutation has appeared twice except the junifolia mutant which arose once in Cobb and Bartlett's cultures
of Oenothera pratincola and once in Shull's strains of Oe. La-

tions

marckiana.

Mutation and Environment

The mutation rate of different genes may be greatly affected
by environmental conditions. Muller, for example, found fewer
lethal mutations at low temperatures than at high, and the

Questions and Problems

241

tremendously increased rate when plants and animals are subjected to radium, X-rays, ultraviolet light, and high temperatures
has been demonstrated on many occasions. This subject is discussed more fully in the next chapter.
Effect of Other Genes on Mutability

Rhoades has reported an interesting case of a stable gene
that becomes unstable in the presence of a nonallelic gene. In
maize, plants which have the genes B and PI are purple if A is
present but are brown if homozygous for a. If the gene Dt is
present in aa plants, the a gene undergoes frequent mutations to

A in somatic cells throughout the plant, producing plants having
husks and culms which are brown with longitudinal purple
stripes.

The

stripes

are small, indicating that the mutations

The gene a is an unstable
gene in the presence of Dt but not in homozygous dt dt plants,
occur late in somatic development.
for such plants never

have the purple

stripes.

This frequent

mutation occurs not only in vegetative parts of the plant but
also in the aleurone layer of the fruit.

Since this layer is part

endosperm tissue, each gene is present in three doses inAt the a locus is another allele a^ producing a pale
color.
Plants which are a^a^a and also have the gene Dt have
only a third as many dots in the aleurone as aaa plants which
have Dt. This shows that Dt affects only the a allele and that
of the

stead of two.

a greater number of a genes increases somatic mutations.

Demerec found a similar gene in Drosophila melanog aster.

In

studying the rate of spontaneous mutation of flies collected from
fifteen different localities all over the world,

he found that the

frequency of spontaneous lethal mutations in the

X chromosome

was much higher in a strain from Florida than in the others. A
genetic analysis showed that this higher rate resulted from the
presence of a recessive gene in the second chromosome.

This

gene produces not only a high frequency of lethal mutations but
also

an increase

in the rate of visible

mutations in a number

of other genes.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

In a plant, would a recessive gene mutation be detected more

easily if it affected the gametophyte or if it affected the sporophyte ?

the same true of a dominant mutation?

Is

The Nature of Gene Mutations

242

you had two fruit trees that were identical except that in one
bud sports appeared rather frequently, which would you select as the
2. If

better for propagating nursery stock?
3.

Why?

If it could be proved that somatic mutations were inherited, would

we have to revise our concepts of heredity and evolution?
4. Two fruit trees are of the same variety, but one is grown in poor
soil and the other is grown under very favorable conditions.
The second
produces a better yield, but when bud grafts are made from both trees,
those of the first produce better yields.

Explain.

Chapter 16

THE INDUCTION OF GENE MUTATIONS
In the last chapter it was pointed out that gene mutation may
be greatly influenced by the environment in which an organism
lives.

It is natural, then, that geneticists

should look for en-

vironmental conditions by means of which they can artificially
induce the mutation of genes.

Attempts to induce mutations were begun rather early in the
history of genetics.
Frequently the results were negative, and
the few times there was an indication of positive results, the
results were not clear.
When there was an indication of positive results mutations sometimes appeared in the controls as
well as in the treated material, and sometimes repetitions of the
experiment did not substantiate earlier claims. Environmental
conditions which were tried included variations in the amount
of food, unusual conditions of temperature, moisture, and light,
and the subjection of organisms to radium rays and X-rays. In
this early period, although most of the work was unsuccessful,
Morgan succeeded in obtaining some wing mutations in Dro-

by treatment with radium.
The years 1927 and 1928 mark the beginning of the extensive
work on the induction of gene mutations by radiation. During
those years, Muller published the results of some X-ray studies
in Drosophila for which he was awarded the Nobel prize in
sophila

1946.
Stadler demonstrated the effect of X-rays in producing
mutations in plants, and Gager and Blakeslee recorded two mu-

Datura Stramonium, by gamma
rays from "radium emanation," in addition to a number of chromosomal aberrations. Since that time, extensive work on the
induc-tion of mutations by radiation has been carried on in a

tations induced in the plant.

great many organisms.

Muller's publication in 1927 can be re-

garded as ushering in the radiation program, for

it

preceded

by almost a year, and Gager and Blakeslee's studies
were concerned more with chromosomal aberrations than with
Stadler's

243

The Induction of Gene Mutations

244
gene mutations.

Muller's studies surpassed the previous

work

by developing special techniques that eliminated the questionable elements of the earlier investigations.

X-rays and Radium

X-rays and radium are the most effective means of inducing
gene mutations in animals and plants. Figure 74 illustrates a

A gene mutation in Oenothera induced by radon. A rosette

Fig. 74.

(right) of mutant pannosa of Dr. W. H. Brittingham and one of Oenothera

Lamarckiana (left) not exposed to radium emanation.
G. H. Shull.)

(Courtesj^ of Dr.

leaf mutation in Oenothera induced in Brittingham's cultures by

radon.

The organism is- placed near the window of an X-ray

tube, or small tubes containing

"radium emanation" are placed

alongside the tissue to be treated.

The time of exposure has

varied in the different experiments and, to be effective, differs

with the organism to be studied.

X-ray dosage and the production of
mutations is considered by many geneticists to be very simple.
Studies of this nature have largely been carried out by noting

The

relation between

the number of lethal mutations produced in Drosophila melanogaster after subjecting the
or to the

flies

same amount over

to different

amounts of X-rays

different periods of time.

Other

Visible

Mutations

245

organisms have also been used and nonlethal as well as lethal
mutations have been studied, but the technique which employs
the study of lethals in Drosophila is far simpler and the results

generally appear to be more reliable.

There

is

no reason to

suppose, however, that the simple relationship which was found
is

unique for Drosophila or for lethal mutations.
It

is

customary to measure the intensity

of radiation

by

a

unit known as the Roentgen unit or r-unit. Without attempting
to explain the nature of X-rays, we can say that an organism
can be subjected to the same number of r-units by exposing it
to an intense radiation for a short time or by exposing it for a

longer period to a radiation of less intensity.
the

number

of r-units

In other words,

may be varied by varying either the

strength of the radiation, the time of exposure, or both.

Studies

using different amounts of r-units indicate that the relationship

between dosage and percentage of induced lethal mutations is
probably linear. That is, a certain increase in the amount of
r-units will always produce a certain increase in the percentage
of lethal mutations. Experimental data show that although this
statement is apparently true for low dosages, there is a falling
off in the number of mutations detected with higher dosages.
This falling off is often interpreted as the result of a defect in
the technique used for the detection of lethal mutations, and it
is

very likely that the linear relationship holds throughout the

range of dosages.

An interesting feature of these studies is that

the extent of lethal mutation will be the same for a certain

dosage whether that dosage

is

the result of a certain intensity

of radiation applied continuously or intermittently.

Visible Mutations

In general, mutations produced by X-rays or radium are not

from those that occur spontaneously. Many of the
mutant types that have appeared spontaneously have reappeared
in radiated organisms, and both "visible" and lethal mutations
have occurred in radiated and nonradiated material. Reverse
mutations have occurred after treatment with X-rays or radium
and are similar to reverse mutations that have occurred sponThe chief difference is that under radiation, many
taneously.
more mutations will take place in a given unit of time than
chromosome of
under normal conditions. For example, in the
different

X

The Induction of Gene Mutations

246

Drosophila melanogaster an average of two lethal mutations
occurs in every thousand chromosomes per generation, and a
dosage of 4800 Roentgen units will increase this rate about seventy times.

would be far beyond the scope of this book to
catalogue all the visible mutations that have been induced by
X-rays or radium, a few examples will give the student some
conception of the kinds of phenotypes that result from irradiIn Drosophila melanogaster, mutations have been proation.
duced at a number of loci. For example. X-rays have caused
the gene w^ to mutate to some of the other alleles at that locus,
such as w (white), w^ (eosin), and w^ (apricot). Similarly, w'^^
(coral), w^ (buff), w'^ (cherry), w^ (apricot), w^ (eosin), and w*
(tinge) have mutated to white and occasionally to some of the
Although

it

other members of the series.

All such mutations cannot be in-

terpreted as losses in the sense that the mutation is always to a

lower member in the series, for white has been known to mutate

some of the higher members such as eosin, and
mutated to the dominant of the series, the wild type.

to

eosin has
It

should

be noted that these mutations are similar to spontaneous ones at
the same locus.

Whiting and his students have carried out extensive X-ray
experiments on the parasitic wasp, Habrobracon, and have listed
twenty-two mutant types which have resulted from irradiation
and are visible as phenotypic characters. These mutations in-

body
and head color, flattened and curved hind feet, wings which fail
to fold over the body, wrinkled wings, black body color, dark
red compound eyes, drooping antennae, and small eyes (Fig.
The procedure in these experiments was to X-ray mated
75).
females and test the offspring by breeding experiments. Since
the males develop from unfertilized eggs and therefore have
only one set of chromosomes, any mutations that should occur
in the unfertilized eggs would be detected immediately in the
male offspring. If a mutation was produced in either the egg
or sperm nucleus of the fertilized egg, the resulting daughter
would be heterozygous for the mutant gene. If the mutation was
dominant, it would immediately be detectable, but if recessive
it could be discovered only by subsequent breeding tests.
clude such abnormalities as pale, opaque, greenish-yellow

Visible Mutations

247

Interesting visible mutations have also been produced in a

number of plants, only a few of which can be mentioned
here.
In Stadler's work on barley he observed a very large
number of seedling mutations. Although these mutations aflarge

fected many parts of the plant and influenced such fundamental

properties as the manner in which the stem grows, many of them

were chlorophyll characters, producing the same types of chlorophyll deficiencies that have

Fig. 75.

Lemon

lethal,

occurred spontaneously.

an X-ray induced mutation

in

Similar

Habrobracon.

(Courtesy of Dr. A. R. Whiting.)

have been carried out by Gustafsson, who identified
hundred chlorophyll deficiencies, most of which he
could group into one of five types. These types are not clearcut but include albinos and plants which are yellow, greenish,
studies

about

six

or striped.

In addition to these defects in the chlorophyll ap-

paratus, Gustafsson has obtained a

number

of

other changes

morphology or physiology of the plant. They include such characters as the erectoid types, which have more
compact, erect heads with shorter and stiffer straw, types which
flower considerably later than normal plants, plants with larger
kernels, and types with brownish or with yellow instead of
o
yellow-green kernels. Gustafsson and Aberg found a very interesting X-ray mutation in Golden barley.
In this cultivated
variety the glumes are linear and have short awns. In the mutant type, the outer glumes are identical in size and shape with
affecting the

The Induction of Gene Mutations

248

the lemmas, and each has a long
those on the lemmas.

morphological

awn of the same length as

This mutation

relationships

and

also

is

of interest

because

no

from the
cultivated

species or variety of barley known in either Europe or America

has outer glumes similar in appearance to the lemmas.
Detection of Visible Mutations
Several different methods have been used in applying X-rays
or

radium for the production of mutations.

In plants, dormant

seeds, sprouting seeds, flower buds, and pollen have been treated

experimenters on animals have irradiated sperm, unfertilized

Somatic tissues have sometimes been
treated, but they, of course, would not produce inherited muta-

eggs,

and fertilized eggs.

tions in animals.

mutation is produced, it will usually be
detected more readity if it is a mutation to a dominant form
than if it is a recessive mutation. If seeds are irradiated, and a
certain recessive gene mutates to its dominant allele, this mutation will be detected at once, provided that it is a gene that
affects the sporophyte.
On the other hand, a similar mutation
of a dominant gene to the recessive allele will not be detected
until the plant is self-fertilized and the next generation is raised;
If a visible, nonlethal

and if the plant is dioecious, or self-sterile, the recessive mutation

may not be detected for several generations.

the problem

is

also a difficult one, since

most

In animals

of the animals

that have been studied cannot be self-fertilized, and, as most of

the mutations that have been produced are recessive, the detection of mutations may often be difficult.

Many mutant types are strikingly different from and are easy
from the nonmutant organism, but perhaps many
differ only slightly. Although these ^'slight" mutations can some-

to distinguish

times be detected, especially in lethals, it is the opinion of some
geneticists that a large number are never observed and recorded.

In one peculiar strain of Drosophila melanogaster
the "attached-X" strain, a very favorable situation
for the detection

produced in the

,

known as
is

present

which may be
In the attached-X stock, two

of recessive visible mutations

X chromosome.

X chromosomes are attached to one another at the ends nearest
Because of this attachment, the two chromosomes must always go to the same pole during meiosis. At-

the centromeres.

Detection of Visible Mutations

249

tached-X females have the two attached X chromosomes and a
Y chromosome. They are females because of the two X's. When
such a female is crossed with a normal male, four types of individuals are theoretically possible. If the two attached-X's unite
with the Y chromosome from the male, an attached-X female is
produced; and if the Y chromosome from the attached-X female
parent unites with the X chromosome of the male parent, a
normal male is produced. When, however, the two attached
chromosomes unite with the X chromosome from the male, an
It is
individual is produced which has three X chromosomes.

X

known as a "super female," but it frequently dies at a very early
stage of development and is never fertile. The fourth theoretical
type results from the union of the

Y chromosome of the at-

tached-X female with the Y chromosome of the male. These
individuals possess no X chromosomes and therefore do not have
one complete genome; tliey die at an early stage. Therefore, a
cross between an attached-X female and a normal male results
in an attached-X female and a normal male plus sterile and

The interesting feature of this cross is that the
normal male offspring receive their X chromosome from their
inviable types.

male parent instead of from their female parent as is usual.
In this method, stocks are prepared in which known recessive
genes are present.

The recessives are different in the attached-X

female stock from those in the normal male stock, and, in this

X

chromosomes is
way, the actual parentage of the individual
known. The normal males used as the male parents are irradiated and are then mated to females from the attached-X stock.
chromosome of the
If a visible mutation was produced in the
of a cross
offspring
male parent, it would appear in the male
between that male parent and an attached-X female because the
chromosome from their
male offspring have all received their
father and their Y chromosome from their mother. If normal

X

X

female stocks were used, a recessive mutation produced in the
chromosome of the male parent would become lost in the next

X

generation because this

X chromosome would be transmitted to

the female offspring and the recessive mutation would be "covered up" by the dominant allele in the other

X chromosome.

The attached-X stock is therefore a very useful tool for detecting these recessive mutations that have a visible effect on the

phenotype.

The Induction oj Gene Mutations

250

Lethal Mutations

That genes can result in the early death of an individual was
mentioned in Chapter 3. Lethal mutations can be induced by
irradiation, and they act in the same manner as do those that
As a matter of fact, about 80 per cent
arise spontaneously.
Probably
of the mutations induced by irradiation are lethals.
a large percentage of the lethal mutations are really chromosomal deficiencies rather than true gene mutations, and some
may be due to other chromosomal aberrations such as translocations and inversions.
If treatment with X-rays or radium induces a dominant lethal
mutation, the effect is immediate.

If such a mutation should be

produced in one of the chromosomes of the egg or of the sperm,
either that gamete would die or, if it were capable of functioning, the individual formed as the result of its union with a normal gamete would die in a very early stage of development. On
the other hand, a recessive lethal mutation will have no lethal
effect unless it is

homozygous.

If irradiation induces the pro-

duction of a recessive lethal mutation in a sperm,

and if that

sperm then fertilizes an egg, the resulting individual will survive
because there is no lethal at the same locus of the homologous
chromosome which was received from the egg. The lethal from
the sperm in a sense is "covered up" by the nonlethal allele in
the homologous chromosome.
self-fertilized,

or

if

If a

heterozygous individual

two heterozygotes bearing a

is

lethal at the

same locus are mated, a fourth of the offspring will be homozygous for this lethal and will fail to reach maturity.
of

The effect

a recessive lethal, therefore, will not be so immediate in

expression as the effect of a dominant.

made to this statement.

One exception may be

A recessive lethal induced in one of the

sex chromosomes of the female will be immediately apparent
in the

male

offspring.

Most

of the induced lethal mutations

that have survived and been detected have been recessives.

Often induced lethal mutations are not gene mutations but
are losses of small chromosomal segments, known as deficiencies.

Sometimes the deficiencies may be large enough to be detected
by examining or measuring somatic chromosomes, but usually
they are too small to be observed by such means.

In Drosophila,

many of these smaller deficiencies may be detected by the loss

Detection of Induced Lethals
of a band or of a

251

few bands in the salivary gland chromosomes

even though ordinary somatic chromosomes would not reveal

Many lethals, how-

such a small loss of chromatin material.

cannot be detected cytologically even in such favorable

ever,

material as the giant chromosomes of the salivary glands.

The

question then arises whether these lethals are true gene muta-

whether they are chromosomal deficiencies that are too
small to be detected by present cytological methods.
Probably some lethals are true gene mutations. Gene mutations may be induced which produce a visible effect; by analogy,
some of the lethals for which there is no known cytological
cause may be actual gene mutations. An attempt to correlate
the number of induced dominant lethals with the number of
induced chromosome aberrations shows that a dosage of 1000
roentgens will produce a much larger percentage of lethals than
of cytologically detectable changes in the chromosomes.
That
all lethal mutations are not structural changes is indicated by
the temperature studies of Plough and others who found that the
mutation rate of fruit flies could be increased by raising the
larvae at temperatures higher than normal.
Sometimes lethal
mutations revert to the nonlethal condition, indicating that
tions or

these lethals are gene mutations, for

it

is

difficult to visualize

how a deficient segment of a chromosome can reappear.
Detection of Induced Lethals

Much of our information on the frequency with which lethal
mutations are induced by radiation comes from studies on Drosophila melanog aster.
in the

For detecting the presence of a new lethal

X chromosome of that fruit

fly,

a very clever technique

has been devised which is very simple to use and by which results

may be obtained in large numbers.

method

It is known as the CIB

(Fig. 76).

To estimate the frequency with which induced lethal mutations are produced in the
to radiation of

X chromosome, male flies are exposed

known kind and intensity and are then mated

with nonradiated females.

If a lethal is induced in the

X chro-

mosome of the male it will not be detected in the female offspring because

it

will be "covered

up" by the nonlethal in the

X chromosome received from the female parent; but when these
female offspring are subsequently mated to normal males, the

The Induction oj Gene Mutations

252

mutation will appear in the next generation and will be maniThe treated
fested as a deficiency in the male population.
chromosome of the male passes into a female and subsequently
chromosome other
These males have no
again into males.
than the one from the treated male; therefore, a lethal mutation

X

X

in that

X chromosome results in the early death of these males.
C

/

B

X

First Cross

Treated ^
(Male)

Marker chromosome
(Female)

C

Offspring

I

B

Type used others lethal or discarded
;

Second Cross

C

/

X

B

Male present/^

Wild-type female
Offspring

;

if no induced lethal

<

C

/

B

C

/

B

Male; lethaL

Bar- eye female

The Clb method of detecting X-ray induced mutations in the
X chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster. (Based upon the work of Dr.
H. J. Muller.)
Fig. 76.

•

mated to the irradiated
male is of a special stock. It contains one X chromosome which
has a lethal gene, I, the dominant gene, B, for bar eye, and an
inversion of a segment of the chromosome w^hich is usually
When these flies are mated, a
designated by the symbol C.
fourth of the offspring w^ill have one treated X chromosome and
one CIB X chromosome and will be females. One fourth will
be male but will have a CIS X chromosome and will die because
The other half of the offspring will not contain
of the lethal.
the CIB chromosome and will not be used for further study. The
CIB females with the treated X chromosome will then be mated
In actual practice, the female

with a normal male.

first

In a normal female, crossing over takes

Detection of Induced Lethals
place between the two

253

X chromosomes, and the induced lethal

might be transferred from the treated chromosome to the nontreated
chromosome. The CIB chromosomes are used because

X

(gene C or an inverted chromosomal
segment) prevents such a substitution of a nonlethal for the
new lethal mutation in the treated chromosome. The bar gene
has no effect but it enables the observer to identify the flies that

the crossover suppressor

have the crossover suppressor.
all

Since this

is

a

dominant gene,

females with the treated chromosome and the chromosome

with the crossover suppressor can readily be separated from

X chromo-

those that have the treated chromosome but have an

some that lacks the suppressor.
When the treated CIB females are mated to a normal male,
the female offspring are discarded. Half the males fail to survive because they have the old lethal, I. If the radiation treatment had induced the appearance of a new lethal, the other half
of the males would also die.
Examining the offspring easily
determines whether males are present.

If

no lethals were

duced, the offspring should segregate into 2 females

:

1

in-

male;

but if a new lethal had arisen as the result of the irradiation
the offspring would consist of females only.

Gene

to eliminate the males that lack the treated

chromosome.

I

is

necessary

Be-

cause of its presence, however, females heterozygous for the CIB

chromosome must be used in the original mating because homozygous CIB flies do not exist.
It has been pointed out by Stancati and Whiting that the
method of determining the production of dominant lethals by
noting a decrease in the number of offspring produced frequently fails to distinguish between inactivated sperm and zygote lethals. For example, males are irradiated and mated to
females, and a decrease in the normal number of offspring reIs this decrease caused by inactivated sperm, thus presults.
venting fertilization or by zygote lethals which have killed the
offspring shortly after fertilization?

This question is not easy

answer for organisms in which all the individuals must arise
from a fertilized egg but can easily be answered in such organisms as Habrobracon juglandis, in which the males with a
few exceptions develop from unfertilized eggs.
If some of the sperm of this wasp are inactivated, the number
of fertilized eggs and therefore the number of female offspring

to

The Induction oj Gene Mutations

254

would be reduced. Since more eggs would remain unfertilized
than normally, and since they w^ould produce males, the decrease in females would be accompanied by an increase in the
If zygote lethals were produced,
males among the offspring.
decrease
in
the females, but there would be
be
a
there would
no accompanying increase in the males, and the number of offspring would be fewer than in a normal progeny. In a series of
experiments, females were crossed with X-rayed males, and in
many of the experiments only males were produced. As the
number of offspring is only about half the normal number, there
In
is good evidence that dominant zygote lethals were induced.
some families, females were produced, but they were much fewer
than in a normal population; and again the number of offspring
was considerably below the normal numbers. Whether these
dominant zygotic lethals are true gene mutations or chromosomal
aberrations is not easy to determine, as the effect would be the

same in either case.
Temperature

Numerous studies have been made on the effect of temperature on the production of mutations in Drosophila inelanog aster.

A number of geneticists have worked on this problem, but probably the most significant work has been done by Plough, Child,

and Ives, and their students. When they raised larvae at various temperatures from 4° C to just below the killing temperature
they found that a definite increase in the number of spontaneous
lethal mutations was produced by temperatures above the normal.

In studying lethal mutations at different temperatures,

the CIB method previously described can be used for the

X chro-

mosome, but another and somewhat more laborious method must
be used for chromosome II and chromosome III.
The various studies on lethal mutations have shown that mutation frequency at different temperatures depends in part upon
the particular stock or strain of the fruit fly, even though all the
stocks are phenotypically wild type.

For example, Demerec

found that between 22° and 25° C, the range of temperature at

which flies are normally raised, the mutation rate in chromosome
I of a stock from Florida was 1.09 per cent whereas the rate of
a strain from

Formosa was only 0.39 per cent and of a par-

Detection of Autosomal Lethals

from Oregon, 0.07 per

255

cent.

Other investigators

have observed differences in other strains.

It is interesting to

ticular stock

note that different investigators obtained the same mutation
rate for chromosome I from Florida stocks and that if the mutation rate of chromosome I is high (or low) in a given stock, the

rate of mutation in chromosome II is also high (or low) for the

same stock.

Different strains of Drosophila differ significantly

in the rate at which mutations occur.

ered whenever studies are

This fact must be consid-

made on the effect of environmental

on rates of mutation. Another factor that must be
considered is the elimination of spontaneous lethal mutations by
differences

selection.

If,

over a period of several generations, those lines

are repeatedly discarded which show lethals while the lines which

show the most offspring are used for continuing the stock, the
percentage of lethals will be considerably less in these lines than
in unselected families of the same stock.

Selection will definitely

decrease the percentage of spontaneous lethals.

Detection of Autosomal Lethals

The method of detecting recessive lethal mutations which are
induced in autosomes is somewhat more laborious than the
method used to detect induced lethals in the X chromosome.
This is because autosomal lethals must be made homozygous
before they can be detected whereas sex-linked lethals can be

detected in the male even though only one such gene is present
since the

Y chromosome does not bear the nonlethal allele.

In

the method first indicated by Muller but set up by Child (de-

by Plough, 1941), a wild-type stock is raised at the
desired temperature and is then mated with a marker stock (Fig.
77). The marker chromosomes bear certain dominant genes for
identification and crossover suppressors to prevent a transfer of
an induced lethal from a treated to an untreated chromosome.
A stock frequently used has one member of chromosome II with
a gene for Curly wings (Cy) and a crossover suppressor (C) and
a homologue with the gene for Star eye (S) one member of chromosome III has a crossover suppressor (C) plus the genes Sb
scribed

;

D (Dichaete wings), whereas the other
member has such genes as H (Hairless) or Dfd (Deformed).
(Stubble bristles)

or

All the genes except the crossover suppressors are lethal

homozygous so that CyCy SbSb stocks cannot be used.

when

256

The Induction of Gene Mutations

When the treated flies are crossed with the marker stock, sixteen possible types of offspring are found (combining four treated
Twelve are discarded that
with four marker chromosomes).

have S or H or both and therefore have no crossover suppressor.

C

X

First Cross
III

II

C

C

SbjorP)

H

II

in

Marker chromosomes

Treated chromosomes
Offspring

Cy

S

Ql

'Sb

Type used; others discarded

Cy
Second Cross

C

C

Cy

C
Offspring

Offspring

Cy

C

Sb

H

C

Sb

Type used; others lethal or discarded

^^^^H
Third Cross

X

Sb

257

Mutation Frequency
cross of Fig.

77.

Of the

sixteen possibilities from this cross,

three die because they are homozygous for Cy, three die because

homozygous for
both Cy and Sb. All the S and H types are discarded, and only
the viable Cy Sb flies are retained. All have one treated chromosome from each pair, and the treated chromosomes are the same
they are SbSb, and one

in all these

is

lethal because

it

is

flies.

For the final cross in the test, two Cy Sb flies heterozygous
for the same two treated chromosomes are mated together. Sixteen theoretical types of offspring are possible but those homozygous for Cy, Sb, or both never appear because these genes are
homozygous lethals. If no new lethal mutations had been pro-

duced in the original treated stock, one-ninth of the viable offspring would have two treated chromosomes of both pairs and
would be phenotypically wild type; two-ninths would have two
identical treated second chromosomes but one untreated member

chromosome III, and would be phenotypically + Sb; twoninths would have a marker chromosome II but two treated
third chromosomes and would be Cy + phenotypically; the remaining four-ninths would have one marker chromosome of each
pair and would be Cy Sb. This last type is always present, but
some of the other types are sometimes missing and their absence
If a lethal had been induced in chromois the key to the test.
some II, all flies that had two treated members of this pair
would fail to survive because they would be homozygous for
of

In such a case two-thirds of the surviving offspring
Simiof the third cross would be Cy Sb and one-third Cy +.
larly, if a lethal had been induced in chromosome III, two-thirds

that lethal.

of the surviving offspring would be

Cy Sb and one-third would

however, a lethal had been induced in both chromosomes, only the Cy Sb offspring of the third cross would be
found. By testing a large number of treated chromosomes, an
be H- Sb.

If,

estimate of the

minimum number

of

induced lethals can be

obtained.

Mutation Frequency

When tests were carried out on the first three chromosomes
of a Florida stock of Drosophila melanog aster, it was found that

most suitable for raising
Drosophila melanogaster. 1.09 per cent of lethals were produced
at 25° C, the temperature which

is

The Induction of Gene Mutations

258

chromosome I, 1.75 per cent in chromosome II, and 2.56 per
cent in chromosome III. These figures show that the percentage
of lethals is not the same in all chromosomes, but it should hardly
be expected since some chromosomes are larger than others. It

in

very interesting to note that the frequency of mutations in
chromosomes I and II stands in about the same ratio to one
another as their respective number of genes. This relationship

is

does not hold for chromosome III, however, as almost 50 per
cent more lethals are found in III than in II, whereas chromo-

some III has only about 10 per cent more genes. These percentages show that when all conditions of the environment are
the same, the frequency of mutations

is

not always propor-

number of genes in a chromosome, indicating,
probably, that some genes tend to mutate more frequently than

tional to the

others.

Studies were made on the number of lethal mutations in chromosomes I and II for different constant temperatures from 8° to

31° C.

In both chromosomes the percentage of lethals increases
At the optimum temperature (23° to
with the temperature.
25° C), the percentage of mutations in chromosome II was 0.82,
at 28°

it

was 0.95, and at 31° it was 2.77.

tions were observed.

Below 23°, no muta-

These results on constantly applied tem-

peratures are consistent with

many other similar studies but

are very different from the results produced

by temperature

by sudden short exposures to higher or lower
temperatures. With temperature shocks, the number of mutations is greatly increased by sudden exposure to either high or
low temperatures. The data for constant temperatures indicate
shocks, that

is,

a Qio of about 5, or for every 10° rise in temperature the number of mutations
coefficient)

is

multiplied fivefold.

A Qio

(temperature

of this value tends to indicate that these mutations

are probably the result of biochemical reactions.

An increase in temperature does not always produce an increase in the rate of spontaneous mutation and, at times, has

actually produced a decrease.

Faberge and Beale found that

the unstable gene for colored spots in Portulaca grandiflora mu-

tated less frequently the higher the temperature.

This gene

produces well-defined spots or streaks of magenta in the epidermis of the petals, stems, and leaves.
the result of a single mutation in one

Each colored spot is
cell.

If this

mutation

Mutation Frequency

259

occurred early in the development of the organ, the resulting
spot

is

large; but

if

it

occurred

late,

the spot

is

small.

Three

plants having this frequently mutating gene were studied.
cuttings were

Four

made and rooted for each plant, and one cutting

from each plant was allowed to develop at 25° C, one at 30° C,
one at 35° C, and one at 40° C.

Counts were made of the num-

ber of spots on each plant, and the mutation rate was then
calculated per unit of stem length, per cell and per unit of time.

TABLE 7
Calculated Number of Mutations per Centimeter of a Portulaca
Stem 2 mm Thick, and per Cell at Four Different Temperatures
(Rearranged from Faberge and Beale in the Journal of Genetics.)

25° C

30° C

35° C

per cm per cell per cm per cell per cm

Plant 1
Plant 2
Plant 3

2.89
2.92
2.75

1.70
2.42
3.45

2.05
2.39
2.22

1.98
2.14
2.59

1.07
1.09
0.86

40° C

per cell per cm

1.25
1.28
0.90

per cell

0.54
0.96
0.60
0.71
not scored

The results obtained per unit of length and per cell are listed
in Table

7.

For this gene, increase in temperature results in a

decrease in the number of mutations per unit of length, per cell

and per unit of time.
Another instance in which an unstable gene mutates less frequently at a higher temperature than at a lower has been reported by Rhoades.

In the last chapter

Rhoades had discovered a

we mentioned that

gene, Dt, in maize that causes the

normally stable gene, a, to become unstable and to mutate frequently to the dominant allele. A, thus producing colored spots

an otherwise colorless aleurone and dominant stripes in the
pericarp and in the stems and leaves. When such a Dt plants
were raised at 15.5° C, an average of 41.8 mutations was ob-

in

served per seed; but

when other members of the same strain

were raised at 27° C, the average was only 9.3.

The Induction of Gene Mutations

260

Other Radiation
Other types of radiation such as ultraviolet light and neutrons
have been used to determine their effect as causative agents of
Whiting used, the same technique in studying the
mutation.
effect of neutrons in the production of dominant lethal muta-

had used in X-ray studies. Males were subjected
to various dosages of neutrons and were then mated (Fig. 78).
tions that he

Fig.

78.

Male

(Courtesy of Dr.

(left)

P.

and female

(right)

of

Habrobracon jnglandis.

W. Whiting; female from the Journal of Heredity.)

was produced, the number of bithan in the controls and the
number of males approximately the same. The results he obtained (Table 8) show definitely that neutrons produce dominant lethal mutations; actually, they are more effective than
If a

dominant zygote

lethal

parented females would be

less

X-rays.
Ultraviolet light

is

far less satisfactory for studying induced

mutations than X-rays,
of the radiation

is

gamma rays, or neutrons because most

absorbed by the tissues of the organism and

consequently thq penetration of the rays to the germ
low.

cells

is

Altenburg and Demerec, Hollaender, Houlahan, and Bishop

have devised means of reducing the absorption and have shown
that ultraviolet light will increase the frequency of mutations.

Altenburg treated cells of the germ tract at the time they form
As they are
a polar cap in the developing Drosophila egg.

Questions and Problems

near the surface of the egg, there was not
tissue to absorb the rays.

261

much

intervening

He pointed out that if ten pole cells

were present at the time of treatment and that

if

a mutation

occurred in one, about one-tenth of the sperm cells of the adult

should have the mutation.
in the

Studying the frequency of lethals

X chromosome by the CIB method, he found eight cases
TABLE 8
Dominant Lethals Caused by Neutrons in Habrobracon
(From P. W. Whiting, in Science.)

The Induction oj Gene Mutations

262

leaf primordium you caused a single
2 Assume that in radiating a
mutate to a recessive allele. Could
dominant gene affecting leaf shape to
transmitted to later generations?
you detect the mutation? Would it be
different if (1) the mutation
Would your answers to these questions be
dominant; (2) somatic crossing over took

were from a recessive to a

propagated vegetatively by
place- (3) the plant could be
3.

'why is the

lethals in autosomes?
4.

cuttings?

for detecting
CIB method simpler than methods used

Why is it necessary to use a crossover suppressor

induced lethals by the CIB method?

when studying

Chapter 17

RADIATION, EVOLUTION, AND THE POSITION

EFFECT
Since it has been shown definitely that radiation can cause the

production of gene mutations, several interesting questions are
presented on the importance of natural radiation and the method

by which radiation acts both in changing genes and in breaking
chromosomes.
Radiation and Evolution
Since mutations can be produced by radiation, and since there

always some radiation in the air, it might well be asked
whether mutations which arise spontaneously are caused by
this natural radiation.
This point is not easy to determine. A
few experiments have been carried out by placing Drosophila in
regions where the natural radiation is higher than normal, such
as carnotite mines, which contain an ore possessing a small
percentage of the radioactive metal, uranium. Such flies showed
a higher mutation frequency than those raised in regions of
'^normal" radiation.
Although these experiments indicate that
regions of high natural radiation will increase mutation frequency, they still do not indicate whether the small amount of
radiation found in areas of low natural radiation causes the few
mutations found there nor do they show that all spontaneous
mutations are caused by natural radiation. Other calculations
have indicated that natural radiation in places where radiation
is "normal" is not enough to bring about even the few spontaneous mutations that are found.
Plough has pointed out that the studies on the effect of temperature on mutation frequency in Drosophila indicate that temperature may be an important factor in evolution.
He shows
that high temperature during development tends to accentuate
the degree in which a mutant character is expressed and that it
tends to make a recessive gene partially dominant. If this was
is

263

Radiation, Evolution, and the Position Effect

264
a

highly beneficial gene, natural selection would tend to pre-

was harmful, selection would tend to eliminate it.
It could be eliminated from a population much more readil}^ if
it was dominant or partially dominant than if it was recessive.
Another factor to be considered is the demonstrated fact that
high temperature and temperature shocks increase the mutation
serve it;

rate.

if it

An increase in the frequency of mutations increases genetic

variability and provides more opportunity for the action of selection.

In this connection it is very interesting to note that many

more species of plants exist in tropical areas than in temperate
ones and that about 80 per cent of the species of reptiles and
58 per cent of the species of

mammals are found in tropical

Another factor is that both high and low temperatures tend to break up large populations into smaller units. In
such small communities, various types of mutations accumulate
to high levels, and if these small units mingled together in the
summer, a more favorable situation for continuous evolutionary
change would be brought about.
regions.

Position Effect

One of the interesting effects of radiation is to cause pieces
of chromosomes to break off and to become attached to either
the normal or to broken ends of other chromosomes.

Such trans-

locations and reciprocal translocations are discussed

more fully

Chapter 24, but the effect of such translocations on certain
genes is taken up here. As the result of a reciprocal translocation, a gene will be separated from the genes next to which it
is normally located and will be placed next to a gene with which
It is interesting to note
it had not previously been in contact.
Avhether after it is in its new position the gene will produce the
same or a different effect from that which it produced when it
was in its ''normal" position on its old chromosome. It has been
shown that the effect is sometimes different. Such a change in
the behavior of a gene is known as the position effect. In a few
instances this effect has been found in flies that were not subin

jected to radiation.

In Chapter 13

it

was pointed out that the bar-eyed fly is the

result of the reduplication of a very short piece of the

X chromo-

segment per chromosome it is
nonbar, or wild type, even though it has one segment in each
some.

If a fly has just one such

Position Effect

265

two homologues as in the normal female.

of the

If it

has two

It may be homohomozygous, it will have four of
the chromosomal segments, two in each homologue. The double
bar type has three such segments in succession in one chromosome, whereas the homologous chromosome of the female may
have only one. Such a fly has a total of four of these similar

segments in one chromosome, it has bar eyes.

zygous or heterozygous.

If

segments, just as the homozygous bar, but

it

has three in one

chromosome and one in the other instead of two in each. The
phenotypic effects of the two types of distribution of these
segments are very
is

different, for the

much narrower than the bar's.

ment

eye of the double bar

fly

In other words, the arrange-

of such segments in an individual, not their

number,

is

Three segments following one another on one chromosome have a very different effect from two
segments. Similarly, a bar-eyed male has two segments on the
chromosome and none on the Y. Its eyes are much smaller
than a wild-type female's, even though the female has just as
the important consideration.

X

many segments, for the two segments of the normal female are
on separate chromosomes.

This relation of the segments at

the bar locus indicates that at least sometimes the effect of a

gene ma)^ be determined in part by the place
relation to the other genes on the chromosome.
its

effect

it

occupies in

In other words,

may be influenced by its position in relation to other

genes.

Another example of the position effect is shown by the hairy
wing mutant in Drosophila melano g aster Like the bar eye situ.

ation, this mutant is also the result of the duplication of a small

part of a chromosome; but whereas the bar eye duplication involves a segment of the
six bands,

hairy wing

is

X chromosome long enough to include
a duplication of only one

very near the tip of the left end of the

band lying

X chromosome. Flies that

show the hairy wing character have extra bristles along the veins
of the wings and on the head and thorax. Demerec and Hoover
showed that normal, wild-type females (+/+) have just one
band at that region on each X chromosome and have no extra
hairs,

whereas males with one such band on their single

mosome

also

have no extra

hairs.

X chro-

Heterozygous hairy wing

females which have two bands on one

X chromosome and just

266

Radiation, Evolution, and the Position Effect

+

one on the other {Hw /
whereas hairy wing males

have about seventeen extra hairs
{Hw / Y) have between thirteen and
In other words, two bands next to one
fourteen (Table 9).
chromosome
produce extra hairs whereas two
another on one
)

X

TABLE 9
Average Number of Extra Hairs on Flies Carrying Various Combinations OF Bands Involved in the Hairy-wing Locus
(Adapted from Demerec and Hoover in Genetics.)

Genetic
Constitution

Action of Radiation

267

bands, was broken off and became attached to the centromere of

Female flies could be produced which
therefore had two normal X chromosomes plus two members
of chromosomes IV, one of which had the translocated piece.
Such a female fly would therefore have three bands on three
separate chromosomes, but such flies do not have extra hairs.
The position effect is again illustrated, for such flies have no
extra hairs in spite of the three bands, whereas flies with two
bands next to one another on the same chromosome have many.
However, if the Hic duplication is present in one or both X
chromosomes, an additional band on the translocated segment
will increase the numbers of extra hairs slightly.
Of great importance to the study of position effect are cases
where euchromatic regions have been translocated into heterochromatic regions and vice versa. By means of radiation, Caspersson and Schultz obtained translocations of euchromatic regions of Drosophila chromosomes into heterochromatic or "inert"
the fourth chromosome.

They found that an increase in the nucleic acid content of the euchromatic regions was brought about which showed
itself in the salivary gland chromosomes by a darkening of the
regions.

bands nearest the heterochromatic regions.

In fact, the closer a

band was to the ''inert" region, the more deeply it was stained.
Schultz has also reported, however, that sometimes the bands
placed next to the heterochromatic regions became invisible,
whereas bands a little farther away were stained more deeply
than normally. Prokofyeva-Belgovskaya seems to find that if
euchromatic regions are transferred to the chromocenter, they
become like the chromocenter, and if heterochromatic regions
from the chromocenter are transferred into the euchromatic part
of the

chromosome, they become like the euchromatic regions.

Action of Radiation

Among the most important problems that arise from the study
from chromosomal aberrations) are the actual effect produced on the gene
and the mechanism by which this effect is produced. Two maOne
jor explanations of this mechanism have been suggested.
result
of
hits
by
direct
is
the
and
supposes that the action is
electrons the other considers that it is indirect and that it arises
from chemical changes set up within the cell by the radiation.
of radiation-induced gene mutations

;

(as distinct

Radiation, Evolution, and the Position Effect

268

The "direct hit" theory assumes that the electrons given off
when a plant or animal is subjected to X-rays or radium hit
assumed that whenever an electron hits
a gene a chemical change is brought about in the gene, as the
result of which the gene thereafter produces a phenotypic effect
different from the effect produced by the gene before it was hit.
the genes directly.

If this

theory

is

It is

correct, the greater the

number of electrons,

number
number of mutations. In other words, there should be a linear
relationship between the X-ray dosage and the frequency of
gene mutation. Such a linear relationship has been found by a
number of investigators for the frequency of induced lethal mutations in the X chromosome of Drosophila. However, if direct
the greater the

of hits,

and, therefore, the greater the

electron hits are the only determining factor in induced gene

would be expected to show the same mutation frequency when the same
dosage was applied. Since different strains from different regions
do not show the same frequency of induced lethal mutations

mutation,

all

strains of Drosophila melanogaster

under similar treatment, other factors, probably biochemical,

must be taken into consideration, indicating that the direct hit
concept is too simple. There is also another piece of evidence
against the theory of direct hits. It has been shown that for
lower wave lengths of X-rays, mutation frequency is independent
When continuously higher values of
of the wave length used.
the wave length are used, a point should be reached at which
the distance between adjacent molecules on the chromosome is
about the same as the diameter of the genes. From that point
on, mutation frequency should no longer be independent of wave
Studies on Drosophila, however, have shown that even
length.
beyond this point mutation frequency is not dependent upon
wave length.
The other theory maintains that mutations are not caused by
direct hits of electrons on genes but by the transfer of energy
from neighboring molecules in the gene environment and that
these molecules are activated first by the radiation. Such sensitized reactions

may be the result of the activation of molecules

by the passage of a phptoelectron.
various

cell constituents,

these activated molecules.

There is competition among

including the genes, for the energy of

Genes that win this energy become

Que$tio?is

mutant genes.

and Problems

269

Another possibility has also been suggested that

other cell constituents may obtain the energy of these activated

and

molecules

that

may

they

therefore

undergo

chemical

medium in which the

changes; these chemical changes in the

gene is found may then bring about the mutations.

This

''in-

direct" theory is compatible with the linear relationship between

dosage and mutation frequency and also with the observation
that mutation is independent of wave length. If we assume that
the cellular environment of the genes

is

different

in

different

same species, the different mutation frequencies
in such strains can be readily explained by the "indirect" hystrains of the

pothesis.

Basing his conclusions on the behavior of his Dt and a genes
Rhoades has suggested the possibility that an altered

in maize,

environment may be responsible for gene mutation.

He

considers that the best explanation for the fact that the

Dt

gene causes the a gene to become highly mutable although

it

cellular

is

very stable on a dtdt background is that the Dt gene alters

He points out
Dt gene is specific in its nature since it acts on only

the cellular environment of the a gene chemically.

that the

one gene whereas the action of X-rays, radium, and temperature
is

Also, short-wave radiation

general.

and temperature cause

numerous chromosome abnormalities whereas the Dt gene does
not.
However, the possibility still remains that various factors,

both internal and external, that increase mutation rate may

act

by changing the chemical nature of the gene environment.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Would you expect to have much success in improving a stock of

plants by the induction of mutations by radiation?
2.

Explain.

Assuming that the average yearly temperature of two regions is

the same, would you expect to find more mutations in a region of uni-

form temperature or in one in which the temperature fluctuates considerably with wide extremes?
3.

Why?

What are the phenotypes of the following flies:
f

-h fu

+ fu

f

B fu

f

f

+ fu + B +

-f

B+

+ B fu + BB fu

f

BB fu

f

BB fu

Radiation, Evolution, and the Position Effect

270
4.

Could position effect have been of any importance in evolution?

Explain.

In producing mutations, can the X-rays be directed to hit a certain gene or a certain chromosome? If not, how can a certain mutation
5.

be induced by radiation?

Chapter 18

MULTIPLE ALLELES
That more than two alleles can be present at the same locus
has previously been discussed. In Chapter 2, two series of multiple alleles were mentioned, and the method of transmission of
multiple alleles that lie on the X chromosome was discussed in
Chapter 7. In Chapter 6 the transmission of multiple alleles
on an autosome was described, with the horned series of alleles
in sheep as an example.
Multiple alleles are frequently found
in plants and animals, but several series are of especial interest

human beings because they determine the various types of
human blood groups. The series of alleles that determines selfsterility or self-incompatibility in many species of plants is a

to

good example of an identical series of multiple alleles in a large

number of organisms.
Self-Sterility
Self-sterility is a

phenomenon found in a great many species

of plants and in a few of the hermaphroditic lower animals.

a

self-sterile

plant, the eggs maj^

In

be perfectly good and the

pollen may be normal and functional, and yet, when pollen from

such a plant

is

placed upon

its

own stigma, seeds will not be

produced (Fig. 79)
This situation is different from true sterility
in which either the eggs or the male gametes or both will be
.

absent or nonfunctional.

Self-sterility

is

patibility though the gametes are functional.

"self-incompatibility"

actually an incomIt is referred to as

by some geneticists, but the term "self-

and is still frequently used although it is less
A feature of the phenomenon of self-sterility is a

sterility" is older

descriptive.

peculiar cross-sterility of such a nature that the various indi-

viduals of a self-sterile species can be grouped into cross-sterility
classes in

which all the members of the same class will fail to

set seed with each other

but will usually

set

a normal seed

complement with all the other individuals of all the other classes.
271

Multiple Alleles

272

have been known for a long time although
the genetic basis for self-sterility in most plants has been known
The botanist, Koelreuter, in 1764 probably
only since 1925.
published the first discussion of self-sterility in plants, and
Self-sterile species

Castle in 1896 reported the first known case in animals. Darwin
considered the problem at length in 1876 but failed to realize

among

the cross-sterility relationship

plants from other than the same clone.

Darwin's

philosophical

view

the

of

problem considered that self-sterility
was a personal reaction of the individual plant brought about by a decrease
in the differentiation of the sexual ele-

ments of the same plant. With

this

decrease in differentiation these sexual

elements
FiG. 79.
tile

self-sterile

ible)

Sterile

combinations

and ferin

the

tend

alike so that they
lize

become

to

sufficiently

no longer will ferti-

one another.

(self-incompat-

Several

Capsella grandiflora.

different

have

hypotheses

Left, a sterile combination

been advanced to explain the mechan-

in which none of the ovaRight,
ries has developed.

ism which controls the inheritance of

a fertile cross in which all
the ovaries of the flowers
that were cross-polHnated

have developed into mature capsules and contain a

complement of seeds.
(From Riley in Genetics.)

self-sterility in various organisms.

Al-

though it is possible that several differ-

mechanisms are instrumental in
different plants, one is undoubtedly

ent

operative in almost

full

to be self-sterile.

all

plants

known

This mechanism, first

described independently by Prell and

by East and Mangelsdorf and during the following year by
Lehmann and Filzer, is often referred to as the "oppositional
factor hypothesis."

In Chapter 4, the method of reproduction in angiosperms was
described in detail. If a pollen grain adheres to the stigma, a
pollen tube emerges from it and grows

down into the ovary.

It

grows toward an ovule, enters through the micropyle, and discharges its contents, including the male gametes or sperm nuclei,

into the

embryo sac.

or cross-sterility or self-

East and Park have shown that selfor cross-fertility are determined by

the rate of growth of these pollen tubes.

In a

fertile

combina-

273

Self-Sterility
tion, the pollen tubes

grow at a continually accelerated rate.

In

a sterile mating, on the other hand, this acceleration does not
occur.

The pollen tubes in both types of mating grow at the

same rate during the earlier stages of growth, and the subsequent
failure of acceleration in

an incompatible combination prevents

the pollen tubes from reaching the ovules before the flowers

wither and drop

off.

The genetic basis for the different behavior of the pollen tubes
was worked out by East and Mangelsdorf for the genus Kicotiana but is similar in most other plants.

Let us suppose that
a plant has two different alleles for self -sterility, which can
(The original notation of East and
be designated s^ and s^.
Mangelsdorf used subscripts, as Si and So. Since multiple alleles are generally denoted by superscripts, this notation should
be observed for the self-sterility alleles.)
These oppositional
genes behave in such a way that if the tissues of the style contain
the s^ gene, pollen tubes containing the s^ gene will not be accelerated in their growth through the style.

Similarly, s^ pollen

tubes will not be accelerated if an s^ gene is present in the female
plant.

Therefore, if an s'^s^ plant is self-fertilized, neither kind

of pollen tube will be accelerated and no fertilization will occur.

The same results will be obtained if two s^s^ plants are mated.
In some plants, a third allele, s^, may be found. If an s^s^
plant is crossed with one whose genetic constitution
s^

is s'^s^,

the

pollen will not be stimulated as before, but the s^ pollen will

grow at an accelerated rate since there is no s^ gene in the female
plant to '^oppose"

it.

The cross s'^s^ X s'^s^ will be fertile.

the reciprocal cross, s^s^

X

-s^s",

In

the s- pollen will grow at an

accelerated rate because no s^ gene occurs in the female plant,

and fertility again will be the result.

In a similar manner, plants

of the genotype

sV will be fertile reciprocally with both s^6-

and sV plants.

If a fourth allele is present, plants of the con-

stitution s^s*, sh"^,
fertile

and sV might be found.

They would all be

together reciprocally and would be fertile with

three types previously mentioned.

all

the

It will be noted that no nor-

mal diploid plant has more than two members of the series of
alleles.

Since an s^ gene in the style prevents the s^ gene in the

pollen from fertilizing *the eggs, homozygous plants, such as s'^s''-,

are not normally produced.

In some plants, however, includ-

Multiple Alleles

274

ing Nicotiana, homozygotes can be obtained by self-pollinating
young buds instead of mature pistils.
The results of crossing two self-sterile but interfertile plants
are very interesting. If the two parents have no allele in common, four intrasterile, interfertile classes will be produced. If a
plant of the constitution s^s^ is pollinated by an s^s* plan, the
Thus, if 100 offfour classes will be sV, s^s^, sV, and sV.

spring were raised,

each

class.

we should expect theoretically 25 plants of

All the plants

would be self-sterile but each plant

would be fertile with only 75 out of the other 99 plants, for it
would be cross-sterile with the other 24 plants of its own class.
If the two plants which are crossed have one self-sterility allele in common, only two classes are produced in the offspring,
and they should appear with equal frequency. The two classes
from such a cross, however, are not both the same as the two
The following two
that are produced by the reciprocal cross.
crosses illustrate this point:

sh- X sh^ = s^s^
s^s^

It will

X s^s^ =

+ s^s^
s^s^

+ s^s^

be observed from this that if a common allele is present,

the class of the mother

is

never represented in the offspring.

If an s^s^ plant is self-pollinated in the young bud, fertilization

may result. Three classes will be produced in the offspring, and
one of them will contain half the individuals. Since neither the
s^ nor the s^ pollen may grow sufficiently slowly to prevent fertilization after a
will give Is^s^:

bud pollination, s^s"^ X s^s^ in the young bud

2s^s^

:

s^s-.

If plants of these three classes are

backcrossed to the parent, those of the second type will be
sterile

with the parent in both directions.

When the parent is

the female, each of the other two classes wdll fail to set seed with
it if

pollinated normally.

If,

however, the parent is the male,

fertility will

be the result with .plants of each of these homozy-

gous classes.

The establishment of homozygous types is very

useful in identifying classes.

Figure 80 shows the results of

crossing plants of various normal and homozygous classes.
If genes for various

morphological characters are linked with

the genes for self-sterility, the ratios will be greatly disturbed

Self-Sterility

275

because of the elimination of certain gametes. The first case
of such linkage was discovered by Brieger and Mangelsdorf, who
found that the basic color gene, C, in Nicotiana was incompletely linked with the self-sterility alleles.

Other cases of such

linkage are genes for pollen color and for length of the corolla

5\

Multiple Alleles

276
of crossing over.

If the recessive

morphological gene is coupled

with the common self-sterility allele in the male, all the offspring
will

be

s'^A / s^a

dominant

if

linkage

X s'^a / s^A will give

is
s''-A

complete.

Thus the

cross

/ s^A and s^a / s^A offspring.

No common self-sterility allele

277

Self-Sterility
in the cross
is

s^a / s^a

s'^a / s^a

X s'^a / s^A, but all will be aa if the cross

X s^A / s^a.

However, the reciprocal

these crosses will segregate into a ratio of lAci

:

of

laa.

each

of

As at least

176 species of plants representing 55 families of both monocotyledons and dicotyledons are known to be self-sterile, the geneticist

must be prepared to encounter disturbed ratios as the result of
linkage of morphological genes and self-sterility alleles, for undoubtedly many more such cases will be discovered than have
already been found.
In addition to the self-sterility alleles, alleles at the same locus

but producing self-fertility have been found.

In Nicotiana San-

derae and N. alata grandiflora, East and Yarnell discovered
sixteen alleles at the

characterized
selfing,

to

by

s

different

A number of these alleles are

ratios

of

pollen tube

growth after

but in only one was the rate of growth sufficiently great

produce self-fertility.

leles

locus.

Fifteen of these alleles (s^-s^^) are al-

for self-sterility, but the sixteenth,

s^,

is

a gene for self-

an s^s^ plant is selfed, the s^ pollen tubes are not
accelerated; but the s^ pollen tubes grow rapidly enough to set
seed since the s^ gene in the style does not act as a barrier. Such
fertility.

If

would be fertile and the offspring
Plants which have the s^ gene are, there-

a self-pollination, therefore,

would be s^s^ and sV.
fore, self-fertile.

The large number of different alleles at this locus is interesting.
It is presumed that all arose as point mutations at various times.

Although 16 alleles were identified. East himself states that this
number does not indicate the actual number that might be found
from wild material.

A study of the number of alleles in wild

populations of Oenothera organensis was made by Emerson.

In

this species of evening primrose which inhabits the Organ Moun-

tains in New^ Mexico, 37 self-sterility alleles were discovered in

about 500 plants.

All behaved as a series of multiple alleles

and all apparently represent a different gene mutation at the
same locus of the same chromosome. In red clover, Williams
found 37 alleles in a series of 40 plants and 41 s-alleles in another
In red clover, Atwood
which consisted of 48 plants.
crossed 49 plants from each of two populations with a s'^s'^ plant.
One plant was chosen from the offspring of each cross, and all

series

these plants were crossed together to test the

number of dif-

278

Multiple Alleles

ferent alleles in them.
alleles; in the

In the first series there were 36 different

second series, 39 were different.
Chinchilla, Himalayan, and Albino

Mammals
Another example of a similar series
of multiple alleles in related species is

the albino series in several animals.

In each species, full color, C, is domi-

nant to complete absence of pigment,
This latter condition, known as
c.
albinism, results in white animals with
pink eyes. Albinism in many other
animals and in human beings is the
result of a completely recessive gene.

In rabbits, mice, and guinea pigs, there
are two

conditions intermediate be-

tween the
tremes.

The

wild type

black

color

full

full

and albino ex-

color,

"gray,"

a blend of yellow

is

pigment.

The

or

and

intermediate

known as chinchilla, is less in-

type,

tensely colored, having somewhat less
of the black pigment and almost none

The Himalayan type
has a white body and pink eyes like
of the yellow.

the albino, but has black ears, feet,
tail,

and nose.

These types result in

each of these animals from a series of
four alleles,

C (self-color), c^'' (chin-

chilla),

c^ (Himalayan), and

bino).

Each member of the series is

c

(al-

dominant over the others in that order.

Multiple alleles for coat color in cats. The normal type (with
the tabby gene) is at a; silver, corresponding to chinchilla in the rabbit is
at 6; at c is the Burmese type resulting from an allele not found as j^et
in the rabbit the Siamese cat, d, results from an allele apparently identical
with the one that produces the Himalayan rabbit. The albino has not yet
Fig. 82.

;

been found in cats.
of Heredity.)

(Compare with Fig. 12.

From Keeler in the Journal

Multiple Alleles at the a Locus of Maize

279

The allelic relationship can be proved by a series of crosses.
A cross between a chinchilla {c^^c''^) and a Himalayan (c^c^)
gives chinchilla (c^^c^)
but if these types were produced by
;

recessive genes on different chromosomes, a cross
between them would produce only wild-type offspring.
Since each gene is completely dominant over those below it
in the series, several of these types may be heterozygous. Thus,
the wild-type animal may be CC, Cc^^, Cc^, or Cc, the chinchilla
may be c^^c^^, c'^'^'c", or c^^c; the Himalayan may be c^c" or
c^c; but the albino can be only cc.
Keeler and Cobb have
nonallelic

shown that a similar series of alleles is also present in cats except
that the albino member either does not exist or has not yet been

The chinchilla type is know^n as ^'silver" and the

discovered.

"Himalayan as "Siamese''
Siamese stand
chinchilla

in

in

cats,

but apparently silver and

exactly the same allelic relationship as do

and Himalayan in these other mammals

(Fig. 82).

Multiple Alleles at the a Locus of Maize

In the last two chapters we have mentioned the a locus of

maize in connection with the effect of Dt in making the stable
gene, a, unstable and in causing it to mutate frequently to A.
Emerson and Anderson and Rhoades have discovered eight alleles at this locus which show a very interesting relationship.
These alleles wdth their phenotypic effects are listed in Table
All these genes produce striking effects on three parts of
10.
the plant

—

^the

aleurone layer, the leaves and stems, and the

An interesting feature of this series is that one gene
may be dominant over another with respect to one part of the
plant but recessive to the other gene or may produce the same
pericarp.

produced by the other gene in another part of the
We find, for example, that a^ is dominant over A in peri-

effect as

plant.

is recessive to A in aleurone and general plant
A^ is dominant over A in pericarp color, but has
the same effect as A on the color of the aleurone layer and of
the stems and leaves.

carp color but
color.

Also,

280

Multiple Alleles

TABLE 10
Phenotypic Effects of Alleles at the a Locus in Maize
(Modified from Rhoades in Cold Spring Harbor Symposium.)

Allele

Questions and Problems
Are these results to be expected from monohybrid inheritance?
might they be explained?
6.

281

How

A chinchilla rabbit bearing the Himalayan gene is crossed with

another chinchilla which has the albino gene.

What are the phenotypes

and genotypes of the offspring?
7.

A cross between two rabbits resulted in four chinchillas, two Hima-

layans,

and two albinos.

What were the genotypes and phenotypes of

the parents?
8.

A rabbit breeder crossed a full-colored animal knowii to have the

albino gene w^th a chinchilla.

One of the offspring was a Himalayan.

What were the genotypes of the parents?
9.

If

gene

(f^

produces silver fur in

cats,

and gene c^ the Siamese

coat, what offspring would be produced from the following crosses?

Cc^ X (f^c"; C(f'' X c'^c"^; c'^'c" X c'^'c"; Cc" X Cc"

Chapter 19

BLOOD GROUPS
It

had long been known that blood transfusions could not be

made freely among all people, for sometimes the individual that
The reason for this
received the blood died almost instantly.
was not clear until 1900, when Landsteiner discovered that the
addition of blood serum from one person sometimes caused the

red blood corpuscles of another to clump together.

a
Fig. 83.

Such clump-

b

Agglutination of cells: (a) no agglutination; (6) cells clumped

together or agglutinated.

ing, known as "agglutination" (Fig. 83), is

merely one phase of
a general reaction known as the antigen-antibody reaction.

An antigen-antibody reaction occurs when a substance which
does not normally occur in the body of a given individual

is

The body of the individual into
whom the injection is made reacts by producing substances which
injected into his blood stream.

tend to oppose or neutralize the foreign body.

It is apparently

an attempt at protection against something which does not belong in and

may therefore be harmful to the individual.

The

protective substance formed is called the antibody, and the foreign substance that calls forth this reaction is an antigen.

particular type of antibody produced depends
of the antigen,

The

upon the nature

and the reaction depends upon the type of anti-

body.
282

Blood Groups in Rabbits

283

Blood Groups in Rabbits
Agglutination is especially well illustrated by considering the
effect of injecting blood

from one rabbit into another.

As shown

by Castle and Keeler, rabbits in general may possess either one,
If blood is
both, or neither of the agglutinogens Hi and H2.
agglutinogen
known
possess
the
is
to
taken from a rabbit that
Hi, and if it is injected into a rabbit that does not possess this
agglutinogen, the second rabbit after several such injections a

few days apart will develop an agglutinin. If blood serum from
the recipient rabbit is then added to blood of rabbits that possess the

Hi

agglutinogen, the blood corpuscles of these other

rabbits will then become agglutinated.

The Hi agglutinogen

an antigen in the body of the rabbit that does not
If
possess it and calls forth the production of this agglutinin.
blood from a rabbit possessing the Hi agglutinogen, however, is
acts as

injected into a rabbit that already possesses this agglutinogen,

not foreign, and no Hi agglutinin is produced. Similarly,
blood from a rabbit that has the H2 agglutinogen will call forth
it is

the production of an Ho agglutinin in rabbits that do not have the

H2 agglutinogen.
The possession of either of these agglutinogens depends upon
the possession of certain genes which may be designated H^ and

H^ and are allelic to each other.

A third allele, h, is also pres-

ent at the same locus, but this gene does not produce any agglutinogen.

Rabbits, then, may be divided into four groups on

the basis of these three alleles and the agglutinogens which
are merely the phenotypic expression of these genes.

The four

groups with their genotypes are:

Group O
Group Hi
Group H2
Group H1H2

hh

H^H^ or H^h
H^H^ or H^h
H^H^

Group O has no agglutinogens and therefore stimulates the formation of no agglutinins in any animals. Group Hi causes the
production of Hi agglutinin in either group

or group H2 indi-

viduals, but not in rabbits of either of the other groups.

Group

H2 blood causes the production of Ho agglutinin only in animals of groups

or Hi.

Blood from individuals with both

Blood Groups

284

agglutinogens causes the formation of both types of agglutinins
in

group O individuals, of H2 agglutinin in individuals of group

Hi, of Hi agglutinins in rabbits of group H2, but does not cause

any agglutinins in rabbits of the fourth group, H1H2.

The A-B Blood Groups in Human Beings
Blood groups in human beings are also controlled by multiple
alleles.

Actually, there are several sets of blood groups in man.

Those which are best known and chiefly determine whether or
not transfusions can be made are the Landsteiner or A-B blood
groups. Like rabbits, human beings can have two agglutinogens,
designated A and B; and any person may have either, both, or
neither.
Persons with agglutinogen A only belong to group A;
those with agglutinogen B only, to group B; a person with both
agglutinogens is in group AB; a person with neither belongs in
group 0. If only the agglutinogens are considered, this situation is very much like the one just described for rabbits; but

when the

agglutinins are considered, the two

cases

are very

Rabbits normally possess no agglutinins, but certain
agglutinins may be developed in their bodies by the injection of
different.

In

human beings, however, the agglu-

tinins corresponding to the

A and B agglutinogens are already

certain agglutinogens.

present in the serum (or plasma) of certain individuals and are

not merely the result of a reaction caused by an injection.

Some

some have
some have both agglutinins, and others
have neither. Obviously, nobody has the agglutinin (antibody)
for any agglutinogen (antigen) which he may carry, for if he
did, his own blood would have been agglutinated in early development and he would not have survived. When a human adult
individuals have the agglutinin or antibody for A,

the agglutinin for B,

lacks a certain antigen, he always has the corresponding anti-

body (Landsteiner's rule). Nobody, therefore, lacks both antigens and both antibodies. The agglutinin specific for agglutinogen A is usually designated as alpha or anti-A, that specific for
agglutinogen

B is beta or anti-B.

The method of inheritance of the blood groups indicates that
a series of three multiple alleles is operative (Bernstein's theory).

A recessive gene is assumed to produce no isoagglutinogen and
A
individuals homozygous for this gene belong to group 0.
dominant allele in the series results in the production of agglu-

The A-B Blood Groups in Human Beings

285

tinogen A and a second dominant allele results in the production
of agglutinogen B.
Neither of these two dominant genes is
dominant over the other.
Several systems of symbols have been used by various scien-

The early theory of Bernstein

tists to

designate these alleles.

used

to represent the gene that resulted in no agglutinogen,

A for the gene producing agglutinogen A, and B for the gene
for agglutinogen B.

Thus, the three

alleles are 0, A,

and B.

This system is adequate, but is not in conformity with the usual

system of genetic nomenclature, according to which all genes at

same symbol except for the use of a
capital or lower-case form to designate dominance or recessiveness, or for the plus sign which indicates the wild type, and
a given locus have the

except for the addition of different superscripts to indicate the

various members of a series of multiple

alleles.

In an attempt

have the genes for the blood groups conform to this system,
some authors use a for Bernstein's 0, and a^ for his B. This
system is an improvement but would tend to suggest that gene
A was the top dominant in the series whereas it is not dominant
over a^. Another system assumes that group
is the wild type
or standard and uses a plus sign to indicate Bernstein's gene 0,
retaining the symbols A and B. Another method, and one which
is in harmony with genetic practice, was suggested by Strandskov. He suggests the symbol i for the gene for no isoagglutinogen and I"^ and I^ for the dominant genes producing agglutinogens A and B respectively. AVithout passing on the merits of
the various systems, the early system of 0, A, and B will be
adopted for this book because it is so widely used by the active
workers in the field. Because it is so formally correct, the symto

bols of Strandskov will also be indicated in

many places.

Disregarding the subgroups which will be mentioned

later,

will be genotypicalh^ 00 (or ii).
A will be AO or .4.4 {7-^/ or h^I^) and those of group
B will have the genotypes BB {PP) or BO {IH). Genes .4 and
B (/^ and I^) show no dominant and recessive relationship with
If an individual is genotypically AB
respect to one another.

Those

individuals of group
of group

(I^I^), he possesses both agglutinogens

and therefore belongs

to group AB.
If

blood from a group

groups

A person is injected into people of

A or AB, no harmful consequences arise because such

Blood Groups

286

people do not possess the alpha agglutinin or antibody.

If,

or group B individuals, they
may die because they possess the alpha agglutinin and their red

however, it is injected into group

corpuscles will be clumped together into small masses which

block the circulation of the blood.

In a similar way, blood from

B can safely be introduced into people of
B and AB but not into individuals of groups
or A.

persons of group

groups

Blood from group

can be introduced with reasonable safety
into people of types A, B, and AB because it does not contain
the A or B agglutinogen (antigen) and therefore will not be
Finally,
agglutinated by A, B, or AB types of blood serum.
blood from people of group AB can be introduced only into
people of the same group. Such persons have both the A and

B agglutinogens
glutinated

(antigens)

;

therefore their blood will be ag-

by any blood that has either or both of the agglu-

tinins (antibodies).

The four groups with their respective geno-

types, agglutinogens, and agglutinins, and the various agglutination reactions are summarized in Table 11.

TABLE 11
The Landsteiner Blood Groups and Some of Their Properties

The A-B Blood Groups in Human Beings

287

and a group A person are mated, the cross must be
either 00 X AA or 00 X -^O. The offspring could be only group
A (AO) in the former case or group A (AO) or
(00) in the
latter.
If the child is of group B or group AB, courts will admit
group

the blood group relationships as evidence that such a child could

Blood groups will not establish parentage but will show sometimes that the supposed parentnot be the child of those parents.

Various combinations of geno-

age could not he the correct one.

types with the possible offspring they could produce are shown

Table

in

12.

Some recent studies indicate that both group A and group AB
two or more subgroups. Earlier results had
indicated that when group A blood was mixed with group B
serum, the serum was absorbed by the group A blood until it
no longer could agglutinate group A blood. This reaction was

composed

are

of

A blood contained agglutinogen A
whereas group B serum contained group A agglutinin. In some
tests, however, when the blood of some individuals of group A
was used to absorb the group B serum, the serum lost the power
to be expected since group

of agglutinating the blood of these individuals but could ag-

glutinate the blood of most other individuals of group A.

This

seemed to indicate that there were two varieties of group A
The
blood, designated by Landsteiner and Levine Ai and Ao.
agglutinogens found in these subgroups are designated as agglutinogens Ai and A2, and the genes which determine their pres-

ence

may be designated A-^ and Ao or 7-^^ and I^^

Thomsen et al.).

(theory of

Since two agglutinogens determine the two

subgroups of group Ai, one could expect to find similar subgroups of group AB. Such subgroups have been found and are
designated AiB and A2B.
It

has been found, also, that the anti-A or a agglutinin also is

composed

of several subtypes.

Anti-A or a agglutinin reacts

with both the Ai and A2 agglutinogens, and the reaction is some-

what

less

intense with A2.

Agglutinin anti-Ai or

ai,

on the

other hand, reacts strongly with agglutinogen Ai but only very
feebly with agglutinogen Ao.

contain

both the

a

and the

Group B and group
ai

agglutinins,

but

O usually
this

latter

ai

may also be present in rare cases as an irregular agglutinin

in

A2 or AoB blood.

Very rarely, sera from Ai or AiB bloods

Blood Groups

288

contain an agglutinin known variously as ao or as anti-0 since
blood and less strongly with
it appears to react with type
certain bloods containing on

A2 agglutinogen.

One theory has

TABLE 12
Results of Crosses between Various Combinations of Genotypes
FOR the AB Blood Groups

Genotypes

The A-B Blood Groups in Human Beings
complete^ dominant over 0{i).

is

give

289

Anti-0 serum appears to

weak reactions witli group B blood in a small percentage

of the cases

and no reaction usually.

This behavior has been

explained on the basis of an incomplete dominance of gene

B

The reaction of anti-0 serum to blood of group
A2 is explained by supposing that the cases in which the reaction
(I^) over 0{i).

occurs are individuals wht)se genotype is A2O (or I^^i) and that
the reaction is with the product of the 0{i) and not that of the

serum
should not react with homozygous individuals of subgroup Ao,
whose genotype is A2A2 (or /-^^/^^). It is very difficult to identify such homozygotes with certainty unless both parents are of
group AoB, a very rare situation because of the infrequency of
other gene.

If this explanation is correct, the anti-0 (a2)

A2B subgroup.
On the other hand, AViener and Karowe have suggested that

the

the anti-0 sera are related to the blood groups in the same

manner that the anti-Hr sera are tc the Rh blood types which
will be discussed later.

According to this view, anti-0 sera react

and Ao but not with
If so, anti-0 serum should give

with the properties determined by genes
those determined by Ai and B.

00, A2A2, and A2O individuals, weak reactions with people whose genotypes are A1A2, AiO, BO, and
AoB, but negative reactions with AiAi, BB, and AiB people.
strong reactions with

A third subgroup of group A has also been found.

It has been

and gives a very weak reaction with anti-A sera. It
appears to be even rarer than subgroup A2. Another rare subcalled A3,

group, designated A4, has also been reported.

It is characterized

by a very weak reaction with sera of group B. To account
for subgroups Ai, A2, and A3, and groups B and 0, five mulThey are designated Ai, A2,
tiple alleles have been suggested.
/-^^,
Gene 0(f) is recessive
I^-, P^ P, and i).
(or
A-s, B, and
but shows no
to all the others.
Gene B{I^) is dominant to
dominant-recessive relationship with any of the other three alleles, but Ai is dominant over Ao and both are dominant over ^3.

< .B.
The relationship might be indicated as ^4.1 > ^2 > ^3 >
The various groups and subgroups produced by the various
combinations of genes
for

(excluding the combination responsible

subgroup A4) would be:

Blood

the

The Rhesus Blood Groups

291

N type is NN, and the MN type is MN.

The various pos-

sible crosses among these types with the genotypes of the parents

and ratios in the offspring are illustrated in Table 13. A study
of this table shows that neither the
nor the N agglutinogen
can be present in the blood of a child unless it was also present
in the blood of one or both parents. It shows also that an individual of type
cannot give rise to a child of type N, since
type N would be homozygous for gene N, and that a type N

M

M

TABLE 13
Results of Crosses between Various Genotypes Producing the
Blood Types

Genotypes of Parents

MN

292

Blood Groups

when blood of the rhesus monkey was injected into rabbits an
immune serum was produced in the blood of the rabbit. When
this

antiserum was mixed with

human blood, agglutination re-

sulted in about 85 per cent of the cases which they tested, showing

that the rhesus monkey and most human beings contain this par-

They designated this ag-

ticular agglutinogen in their blood.

glutinogen as Rh.

Preliminary studies of the presence or absence

agglutinogen in several families indicated that

of this

it

be-

haved as if it were the result of a certain dominant gene, which
can be designated R. It was further shown that in certain types
of matings Erythroblastosis foetalis, a familial hemolytic disease
mother was Rh~negative and
the father was Rh-positive and homozygous, the offspring would
be genotypically Rr, would possess the agglutinogen, and would
of the newborn, resulted.

If the

therefore be Rh-positive.

Apparently this agglutinogen can often pass through the placenta from the fetus and can enter the mother's blood.
it

There

antibody or agglutinin,

will stimulate the production of the

which can also diffuse through the placenta and enter the blood
of the fetus.

Since the blood of the fetus contains the agglu-

will be agglutinated

tinogen,

it

glutinin

and the

fetus

by the introduction of the ag-

may be stillborn.

This reaction occurs

entirely independently of the blood groups of the parents
fetus.

It does

not, however,

occur in

all

cases in which the

mother is Rh-negative and the child Rh-positive.
the first-born child is seldom affected,
the

first

if

at

and

all,

For example,
but apparently

Rh-positive child sensitizes the mother so that subse-

quent Rh-positive children are much more likely to be affected.
In a few cases the first-born child was affected, but in most of
these the mother had previously received a transfusion of
positive blood.

Rh-

Even the subsequent children, however, do not

die in nearly so high a frequency as

is

expected, for only about

one out of twelve pregnancies which could result in an erythroblastotic infant do so.

Apparently more than one pregnancy is

sometimes necessary before a

sufficient

degree of sensitization

develops.
It is quite reasonable to

suppose that in some of the preg-

nancies which do not result in death an effect may be produced

which may be harmful although not

fatal.

Some observations

The Rhesus Blood Groups

293

of feeble-mindedness have indicated that some of the Rh-positive

children

who survived may be

feeble-minded, for preliminary

studies have shown that in two groups of feeble-minded children,

a considerably higher percentage were Rh-positive children whose

mothers were Rh-negative than would be found in a population
of normal individuals. A further study of a number of patients

who had a hemolytic reaction to blood transfusions of a homologous blood group and of mothers of erythroblastotic babies
showed that the Rh-positive individuals actually included a
number of different types or subtypes. All of them were Rhpositive and were apparently determined by a series of five alleles, all of which were allelic to the recessive gene r.
During
of
the course
these studies the symbols for the various genes
have been modified as increasing knowledge of the phenomena
were obtained, but the symbols adopted by Wiener (1946) will
be used here.

Gene r is recessive to all the other genes in this series of multiple alleles.
It produces no agglutinogen and reacts with no
agglutinin. Gene r^ produces agglutinogen Rho and reacts positively with anti-Rho agglutinin. Gene R' produces agglutinogen
Rh' and reacts with anti-Rl/ agglutinin. Gene R^ produces
both Rho and Rh' agglutinogens and reacts with both anti-Rho
and anti-Rh' antibodies. Gene R'' produces Rh'' agglutinogen
and reacts with antisera containing the anti-Rh" agglutinin,
whereas gene i?- results in the presence of both Rho and Rh''
agglutinogens and reacts with both antibodies, anti-Rho and
anti-Rh". None of these genes is dominant to any other, but
all are dominant to r.
Twenty-one theoretically possible genotypes can result from
these six alleles and are listed in Table 14. They can produce
eight different phenotypes or rhesus blood types.

Three anti-

and anti-Rh", have been found, and
may form five types of sera. Rh-antiserum anti-Rho has agglutinin Rho, whereas anti-Rh' has agglutinin anti-Rh', and antiRh" antiserum contains agglutinin Rh". Combinations of antiRho antiserum may also be found with either of the other two
types, giving antiserum anti-Rho, Rh' (also called anti-Rhi) and
bodies, anti-Rho, anti-Rh',

anti-Rho,

Rh"

(also

designated as anti-Rh2).

An interesting

feature of the genes that determine the Rh-types

is

that the

Blood Groups

294

TABLE 14
The Eight Rhesus Blood Types, Their Theoretical Genotypes, and
Their Reactions with Rh-antiserum and with Hr-antiserum
(Modified from Wiener [1943] and Wiener et al. [1946]

Rh Blood

The Hr Factor

295

antigen which results from the action of a single gene
indistinguishable serologically from that produced

bined action of two alleles.

may be

by the com-

For example, gene R^ gives a posi-

tive reaction with antibodies Rho and Rh', as do also gene r^ and

R^ together. Thus a person with gene R^ will show the same reactions as an r^R' individual. Similarly, gene R- acts like r^ and
-R" together.*

In Table 14 we have seen that eight Rh types are theoretically
possible.

When the reactions of these eight to anti-Rh' and

anti-Rh" sera are considered, it is clear that these types fall into
four classes as in Table 15.
to the four Landsteiner or

These four classes are comparable

A-B blood groups.

When anti-Rho

antiserum is also taken into account, each class can be further
subdivided into two subclasses

—those that give a negative reac-

tion with anti-Rho antiserum

and those that are Rho-positive.

This classification makes the relationship of the eight types

somewhat clearer.
The rhesus blood types have been studied rather intensively
among the white population of New York City, and it has been
found that the frequencies of the various types are very different.

Some studies have shown that about 54 per cent have the Rh'
agglutinogen only, .14 per cent the

Rh" agglutinogen only, and

about 17 per cent both these agglutinogens.

Approximately 86

per cent possessed the Rho agglutinogen but only 2.5 per cent of
these lacked both the other agglutinogens.

the cases studied were Rh-negative.

types of blood,

all

About 12 per cent of

Of the eight theoretical

have been found, but the Rh'Rh" type

is

exceedingly rare.

The Hr Factor
In 1941 Levine and Javert reported that when the blood of a

woman who was Rh-positive, but who had produced an erythroBecause the term Rh
was considered advisable to change
the designation of this specific Rh type to Rho. The gene was correspondingly
changed from Rh to Rh^ (Wiener, 1944). As it is more conventional to use
superscripts for multiple alleles, Rh^, R^ or r^ are preferable (Wiener et al.,
1946). Genes R^ and R^ were formerly designated Rhi (or Rho') and Rh2 (or
Rho"), respectively. Antisera anti-Rho, anti-Rh', and anti-Rh" were formerly
designated anti-Rh, anti-Rhi, and anti-Rh2.
* Originally,

type rh^ was designated as type Rh.

types is often used in a general sense,

it

Blood Groups

296

was tested, the serum was found to contain an
which
could agglutinate all Rh-negative bloods. This
antibody
new property was designated Hr and the corresponding aggluA similar agglutinin was reported in 1943 by
tinin anti-Hr.
Race and Taylor in England who designated it the St factor.
Levine and Javert, however, had apparently used a weak antiserum which gave only about 30 per cent positive reactions,
blastotic child,

TABLE 15
The Eight Rhesus Blood Types Akranged to Show That They Fall
INTO Four Classes with Respect to Their Reactions to Anti-Rh'
AND Anti-Rh" Sera
•

(Modified slightly from Wiener, Sonn, and Belkin in the Journal of
Experimental Medicine.)

Linked Genes
given by homozygous

is

r,

r^,

297

R" and R- individuals than by
,

those persons who have only one of these genes and also either

R' or R'^, the results expected from all the possible Rh genotypes
are listed in Table 14.

The Hr factor can be used as a pre-

sumptive test for the homozygosity or heterozygosity of type
Rhi fathers in families with erythroblastic infants (Wiener,
1946).

Other Alleles

Two other alleles at the r locus have been discovered although
Race and Taylor and Murray, Race, and Tay-

they are rare.

found genes which they designated Rhy and Rh^ and which
Wiener has designated R' " and R^ 2, both of which react posilor

and Rh" antisera but negatively with anti-Hr
serum. Gene R^ " gives negative results and JRi 2 positive results with Rho antiserum.
Although these genes appear to be
rare among whites, they are far more common among Mexican

tively with Rh'

Indians.

Wiener has
reactions.

some bloods which give intermediate
He suggests that there may be some ''intermediate"
also found

genes such as are listed in Table 16.

Linked Genes
Multiple alleles at one locus have not been the only explanation offered for the inheritance of the

Rh blood types.

Fisher,

Race, Levine, and others have suggested an alternate explanation.

They assume that three loci are concerned, that these loci

are very close together on one chromosome, and that at least two

each locus. The pairs of genes are T> and
and
C
c, and E and e, and the antibodies with which they

alleles are present at
d,

react are A or anti-D, 6 or anti-d, F or anti-C, y or anti-c,

and

H or

Comparing this terminology of Levine
and the British workers with that of Wiener previously discussed, we find that anti-C is the same as anti-Rh' and anti-c
the same as anti-Hr'. Similarly, anti-D is anti-Rho and anti-d
is anti-Hro, and anti-E is anti-Rh" and anti-e is anti-Hr".
The
anti-Hr' serum was originally called St by Race and Taylor and
simply anti-Hr by Levine.
The symbols D and d, C and c, and E and e are not intended
anti-£'^

rj

or anti-e.

Blood Groups

298

any dominant-recessive relationship but indicate the
Evidence from gene
genes that are found at the same locus.
frequencies makes it appear that the order of the genes on the
chromosome is D-C-E.
Let us now compare the genotypes of the two theories. Ac-

to imply

cording to the theory of linked genes, genotype CDe reacts with
C, D, and e serum. It corresponds with gene R^ of the other

TABLE 16
Four Additional Alleles at the r Locus and Their Reactions with
THE Standard Antisera
(From Wiener in Science [1944])

Inter-

Questions and Problems

299

there is crossing over, it should be small in amount and difficult
to prove.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
rabbit is injected into a second rabbit.
Blood from a group
Blood from the second rabbit is then mixed with blood from all four
groups. With which groups, if any, will a positive agglutinin reaction
1.

be obtained?

What agglutinins \^ill develop in the blood of a group

2.

rabbit if

blood is injected into it from (a) group Hi; (6) group H2; (c) group H1H2
rabbits?
3.

A person of blood group B is injured and must be given a trans-

fusion.

groups.

You, the physician, are offered blood from people of all four
Which groups would you accept and which would you reject?

Why?
4.

What would be the blood groups of the offspring of the follo-wdng

crosses
(a)

00 X AO

(5)

00 X BO

(c)

.-10

(d)

AB X BO

(e)

BB X BO

W

X AB

W

5. Mrs.
is of group A and Mr.
is of group B.
Mrs. Y is of
group AB and Mr. Y is of group B. There are four children, one of
each group. Can you identify any child as the offspring of one couple
but not of the other? Could any of the children be the offspring of either

couple?
6.

What may and what must be the blood groups of the children

of the following crosses:
(a)

Group X) and group B

(b)

Group B and group AB

(c)

Group A and group B

(d)

Group

(e)

Group AB and group

and group

If the mother is of group 0, to which blood groups can the father
belong if the children are of (a) group A; (6) group O; (c) group B?

7.
7iot

8.

What may be the blood types of the children of the following

crosses

Blood Groups

300
(a)

(6)
(c)

(d)

9.

10.

M X type N
Type MN X type MN
Type N
X type MN
Type M X type M
Type

In the following cases, to which types may the father belong:

M

(a)

Mother is type

;

child is type

(b)

Mother is type M;

child is type

(c)

Mother is type MN; child is

M

MN
type M

What are the offspring from the following crosses among rhesus

blood types:

11.

(a)

Rh X rh

(b)

rh

X R'r

(c)

/2V0

X R'R'

(d)

Rh^

X R'R"

(e)

RV-

X R'r

From the point of view of the offspring, is it more or less desirable

for an R-negative man to

marry an R-positive woman than it is for an

R-positive man to marry an R-negative woman?

Explain.

no agglutination because of the A-B or M-N
any objection if: blood from an R4- woman is
injected into an RH- woman; blood from an RH- woman is injected into
an R — woman; blood from an R— woman is injected into an R+ woman?
Would it matter in any of these cases if the R— woman had had a child
by an R-j- man?
12.

Provided there

blood groups,

is

there

is

Chapter 20

GENE ACTION
It was pointed out in earlier chapters that inherited characters

are the result of the interaction of certain alleles with

say that one plant has white flowers because

it

all

the

Thus we

other genes of the organism and with the environment.

has genes for

white flowers and another has red flowers because

it

has the

These two alleles, superimposed on the
same genetic background and in plants which develop under
the same environmental conditions, will produce two strikingly
allele for

white flowers.

different results.

easily

Why?

Unfortunately, this question

is

answered on the basis of our present information.

have a good understanding of the manner

in

not

We

which genes are

transmitted from one generation to another and we

know the

phenotypic and genotypic ratios to be expected from certain
types of crosses, but the reasons

why

certain

genes produce

certain phenotypes while their alleles produce others are

much of a puzzle.
dence that

still

For a number of genes we have some evi-

may indicate a clue to this problem, but there is

much still to be learned of the action of genes in general.

This

phase of genetics is closely allied to both embryology and biochemistry.

In considering gene action, we must realize that the individual is a unit and not merely an aggregation of a large number of smaller units.
tilized egg.

The individual usually starts out as a fer-

This zygote divides and the two

from that division divide.

cells

which result

Many cell divisions follow until the

mature plant or animal is produced.

As the cells divide, differentiation takes place, for some cells assume different shapes
and sizes. This differentiation in form is accompanied by a
differentiation in function. Thus the individual becomes gradually differentiated until the final, mature form is attained. Some
of the steps in this differentiating process occur early
301

and affect

Gene Action

302

a large part of the individual; others occur later in development

and produce only small, localized effects.
The development of an individual involves many complicated
chemical and physical interactions. The unfertilized egg consists
of a nucleus containing cytoplasm and one haploid set of maternal chromosomes. To this, on fertilization, are added a haploid set of paternal chromosomes and perhaps a trace of paternal
This fertilized egg is oriented in a certain position

cytoplasm.

and is in a given environment which is normal for that species.
This orientation may have a definite effect on development, subjecting part of the egg to certain stimuli that the rest of the egg

Whatever the cause, the early stages of development of an embryo are usually a characteristic of a species
does not receive.

or a larger group.

Let us take Crepidula, the slipper limpet, as an example. The
zygote divides into two large cells, which then divide to form a
These cells divide to form four
quartet of four blastomeres.
The large blastocells much smaller in size, called micromeres.
meres are referred to as macromeres. Another quartet of micromeres is then formed from the macromeres. The first set of
micromeres divides so that the sixteen-cell stage consists of
twelve micromeres and four macromeres. The left posterior macromere then divides to form a cell known as the 4D cell (Fig.
Successive divisions of the various cells proceed to form
84).
the embryo.

It is

important to recognize that these successive

divisions always occur in a regular manner and that the various

groups of

cells will

develop into definite parts of the animals.

The four macromeres, exclusive of the 4D cell, form the entire
endoderm of the adult and the micromeres produce the ectoderm
from the 4D cell develops the entire mesoderm of the mature
animal.

The earliest stages in the development of an animal seem to be
directed by the cytoplasm of the egg, which is, of course, purely
maternal in character.
The complete development from the unfertilized egg to the
mature individual is an extremely complicated series of phenomena even in those forms that we generally regard as "lower"

There is considerable variation in the developmental
pattern in the various forms, but one thing stands out. Within
each species there is a certain pattern of development that is
animals.

Gene Action
Egg Nucleus
Centrosome

303

Cytoplasm

Fig. 84.
Early stages in the development of the egg of the
mollusk,
Crepidula plana. The male and female halves of each
nucleus are indicated'.
(Courtesy of Dr. E. G. Conklin. b-f from Heredity and
Environment with
permission of the Princeton University Press.)

Gene Action

304

any serious disturbance to this pattern occurs, developmental processes following such a disturbance are no longer
normal, and growth and development thereafter fail to follow
the normal pattern.
Such a disturbance may be genetic or it
normal.

If

may be environmental.
The processes of development are many and complicated.
During the earliest stages, just after fertilization, various currents appear in the cytoplasm which initiate the whole developmental pattern and start development off in the manner of
that species.
Such plasma flowings are described in detail by
Conklin for Crepidula plana.
Modifications due to environmental influences may change the normal currents and thus alter

normal development. Later development seems to be due to
chemical reactions between the genes of the two species and
the cytoplasm and may also be disturbed by unusual conditions
of the environment.
Unless these conditions are extreme, however, development proceeds normally according to the pattern
of the species. Although all gene products are interacting at all
times, it is probable that the differences between two organisms
that are unlike by only one pair of alleles occur at the time the
organs specifically affected by those genes are developing.
In the vestigial and wild-type fruit flies, the vg and vg+ genes
in both organisms are interacting with the other genes and with
the cytoplasm during the earliest stages of development, but up
to the time of wing formation and growth, no differences between
the two types of flies can be detected. When the wing is being
formed, however, these two genes are still interacting with other
genes and with the cytoplasm, but now the reaction is of such
a nature that the two types can be differentiated. During wing
formation, one gene affects the developing wang in such a way
that it remains small and poorly developed, whereas in a related
fly, even a sib, the other gene affects the developing wing so as
to cause

it

to develop "normally."

Thus, while

all

genes are

probably producing gene products throughout development, the
difference between two alleles will not be obvious until a certain

organ has reached a certain state of development.

The time at

which the action of a gene becomes noticeable phenotypically
differs with different genes.
Some genes appear to act early because they affect an organ that develops early; other genes do
not come into prominence until much later.
Some genes that

Gene Action

305

have an early effect, such as genes for general growth, affect all
subsequent development other genes, such as the eye-color genes
in Drosophila, have an early differential effect and then no
;

any striking influence.
In a recent symposium, Wright has made some

longer exert

suggestions regarding the physiology of genes.

interesting

He has consid-.

ered especially the method by which a gene produces more genes,

the

way it controls metabolism, and its behavior in connection

with the growth of an organism.

We have previously pointed out that most geneticists believe
that a gene is produced by the reproduction of a preexisting gene,

which in some generally unexplained way produces another gene
like itself.
Wright has shown that genes are not completely
autonomous but show a high degree of autonomy. He pointed
out also that a gene is a highly specific giant nucleoprotein and
might be built up in a step-by-step
fashion from very simple substances is to assume a very complex process. He thought that it is more likely that within the
living cell various simple molecules from the nutrients that are
that to consider that

it

present are arranged on the surface of the gene in such a
that the gene itself

is

way

duplicated (Fig. 85).

Many cell processes occur as the result of the action of numerous enzymes.

Available information seems to indicate that these

enzymes are proteins, or proteins combined with a group known
as a prosthetic group, and generally obtained by the organism
from its food as a vitamin. It is generally believed, also, that
these enzymes are produced by gene action. A way they might
be produced has been suggested by Wright and is pictured in
the second section of Fig. 85. There is an obvious relationship
between the synthesis of enzymes and of new genes.
Wright has also pointed out that certain phases of growth
involve the multiplication of proteins specific to the species and
In this respect, growth is closely connected
with these other aspects of gene physiology that we have just
mentioned. If these proteins are produced in much the same
manner as the genes and enzymes just described, the problem

to the individual.

arises that the gene

must have to produce millions

of protein

molecules to account for a doubling of a cell, whereas each gene
produces only one daughter gene between these cell divisions.

This tremendous production of proteins must be accounted

for.

Gene Action

306

As shown in the third section of Fig. 85, Wright has suggested
that special genes in the nucleus may produce model nucleoproteins which migrate into the cytoplasm, where they retain
their genie property, although this property is subject to decay,

germ line.

at least along the

duplicate themselves

many

These model nucleoproteins then
times in the cytoplasm and thus
CYTOPLASM

NUCLEUS
Nucleic Acid

Nutrients

HEREDITY

i

i

i

i

i

Protein

Nucleic Acid
Protein

-Substrate-

METABOLISM

NutrientsNucleic Acid

Prosthet ic

Protein

7

•

I

Enzyme

Product

I

Group
Nucleic Acid

Nutrients

GROWTH

rrnr

Protein

Nucleic Acid

Nutrients ;

i

i

i

a

Protein

Nucleic Acid
Protein

TTTTT
Plasmagene

Modified

Plasmagene

Moditied__

Plasmagene

Gene

* Substrate

DIFFERENTIATION

1

i

i

i

t'

|

> Hapten

[Enz.vme|

Plasmagene
Nutrients

Gene

Fig. 85.

Wright's scheme of gene action.

For explanation, see

text.

(After Wright in the American Naturalist.)

build up the large
a

numbers

of proteins necessary to produce

new cell by cell division.

A suggestion concerning the way various cells become differentiated is given in the lowest section of Fig. 85.

This scheme

seeks to throw light on the problem of how a simple, undifferentiated cell in one particular region

becomes a tracheid while

another one near it becomes a parenchyma cell, a fiber, or a cell
of the phloem.
Our knowledge is by no means complete, but
there

is

considerable reason to believe that this differentiation

has a cytoplasmic basis.

Wright's suggestion is that the cyto-

plasmic differences which cause

cells to

differentiate into cells

and functions result from a controlled
mutation of plasmagenes. As Fig. 85 shows, plasmagenes are

of different shapes, sizes,

Eye-Color Hormones in Drosophila

307

produced by the ordinary genes found in the nucleus. Different
chemical groups which become available under special conditions
then combine with these plasmagenes to modify them.
The
hapten which modifies a plasmagene may be of the nature of
a hormone but may be produced as the result of gene action.
AVhether this picture of Wright's

is

the correct explanation

of gene physiology we cannot say at present.

however,

whether

gene

formation,

All these processes,

metabolism,

cellular

cell

growth, or cell differentiation, are based on the belief that genes

can synthesize substances like themselves.

Eye-Color Hormones in Drosophila

Gene products have been mentioned frequently. The curious
reader will surely ask what gene products are and how they
act.

This question is not easy to answer because, being of an

intracellular nature, they do not lend themselves readily to ex-

perimentation.

It is generally believed that gene products are

of the nature of catalysts or hormones, but experimental evi-

dence to support this view is not extensive.
ever, the presence or absence of certain

Occasionally, how-

hormones in individuals

of a certain genotype has been demonstrated.

Beadle, Ephrussi, Tatum, and others have given us considerable knowledge of the hormones necessary for the develop-

ment of the wild-type eye color in Drosophila melanogaster.
They found that two water-soluble hormones, v^ and cn"^ must
,

be present for the development of the particular shade of red
found in the eye of the wild-type fly. In the wild type, two pigments must be present. One pigment is soluble in water. Its
color depends upon the acidity of the solution in which it is
found, for it is red in a base and yellow in an acid. Since it is
normally red in the wild-type fly, it can be considered a red pigment. The other pigment is insoluble in water and is brown,
but if it is oxidized it is yellow and if reduced is red. In the
wild-type

fly

both reduced and oxidized forms are present in

equilibrium, and the color is brown.

The exact shade

of the eye will

depend upon the relative

amounts of these two pigments. In the white-eyed fly, neither
pigment is present, and the eye is colorless or ''white." If the
Such an eye
red pigment alone is absent, the eye is brown.
hw, but
recessive
gene,
color is found in flies homozygous for the

Gene Action

308

possessing all the other wild-type alleles.
is

absent or reduced in amount, the eye

wild type.

In the cardinal {cdcd)

ment than

in the wild

fly,

If the
is

brown pigment

redder than in the

there

is

less

brown pig-

type and consequently the eye color is
In the vermilion (vv) and cinnabar
closer to the red color.
{cncn) types, there is no brown pigment and the eye is bright
red.

Definite hormones have been discovered which are neces-

sary for the formation of the brown pigment.

In the vermilion

hormone is absent, and therefore the brown pigment is not formed. In the wild type, this hormone is present.
The v^ hormone is formed in the Malpighian tubules, in fat
In the cinnabar fly, the v+ horbodies, and in the eye tissue.
flies,

the

r^^

mone is present, but another hormone, the cn+, is absent.

This

hormone is also necessary for the formation of brown pigment,
and is formed in the wild-type fly in the Malpighian tubules
and in the eye but not in the fat bodies. The cn+ hormone is
formed from the v^ hormone.
Chemical studies have carried even further our knowledge of
pigment formation. The ultimate basis of the brown pigment
is tryptophane.
In the wild-type fly, the v+ gene produces an
enzyme which oxidizes tryptophane to another substance, kynurenin, which seems to be the v+ hormone. The chemical relationship of these two substances is:

H H

H H

-C— C— COOH

C=C— C— COOH

H NH2

COOH NH2
NH2

Tryptophane

Kynurenin or a + hormone

Of course, if the v+ gene is not present, f + hormone is not
formed and none of the subsequent steps in the formation of the
brown pigment can occur. Actually, even in the vermilion fly,
a small amount of kynurenin is formed. Most of it is converted
into the inactive kynurenic acid, but a very small amount is converted into brown pigment.
In the wild-type fly, some of this kynurenin is probably transformed into the inactive kynurenic acid, but much of it is transformed into cn+ hormone by an enzyme secreted by the cn +

Growth Hormones in ''Lazy" Maize
This is probably also an oxidation.

gene.

309

In the wild-type fly,

further chemical changes occur which convert this c?i+
first

hormone

into a tan pigment and then into the brown pigment.

chain of reactions

is

not well understood and

This

may be modified

by other mutant genes. In the scarlet {stst) and cardinal {cdcd)
types, the cn+ hormone is affected in such a way that the full
amount of brown pigment is not produced.
Much of the early knowledge of these hormones resulted from
transplantation studies. If pieces of tissue (anlage) which will
develop into an eye are injected into the body cavity of another
larva, they will develop into normal eyes within the body cavity.
They can later be dissected out and studied to observe whether
the tissues of the host have produced any changes in them.

When

wild-type eye tissue

is

transplanted into vermilion or

cinnabar hosts, the transplanted eyes develop into wild-type
eyes because they secrete their own v+ and cn+ hormones.

If,

however, pieces of eye tissue from vermilion or cinnabar are
transplanted into wild-type larvae, they develop into wild-type
eyes.

In their own bodies they would be vermilion or cinnabar

because of the absence of i^+ or cn+ hormone.
flies,

In the wild-type

however, large amounts of these hormones are produced

and they are diffusible.

They then diffuse into the developing

transplanted eye tissue and supply the hormones necessary for
the development of these transplanted eyes into the wild type.

An

interesting

feature of these hormones

apparently not specific to Drosophila.

is

that they are

In the moth, Ephestia,

a hormone is produced which seems identical in every way with

v+ hormone. This hormone can also be synthesized by a certain
This species of bacterium will produce a
large amount of a substance that is apparently identical with

species of bacterium.

hormone if it is grown under aerobic conditions on a medium
which contains tryptophane. In fact it was this situation which
led to the discovery of the relation of tryptophane and kyi'+

nurenin to the

v^ hormone.

Growth Hormones in "Lazy" Maize
Another example

of a

known hormonal situation correlated

with gene action is the behavior of "lazy" maize.

This type is

homozygous for gene la in the fourth chromosome. If normal
maize plants are tilted at an angle or are placed on their side

Gene Action

310

during development, the growing tip of the stem curves upward

and the new growth is upright.
tively geotropic because

it

is

Such growth is said to be negaagainst the direction of gravity.

Lazy plants, however, when placed at the same angles fail to
bend upward and continue to grow in the direction in which
they are placed. Numerous studies during the 1930's have shown

r\

)

\ I
Concentration
of auxin

Normal maize horizontal

J

3

u

No greater growth

No concentration

"Lazy maize horizontal

Normal
maize
vertical

Fig. 86. Diagram to indicate the action of auxin in maize stems. When
a normal branch is placed on its side, the hormone becomes concentrated
on the lower side, causing this side to grow more rapidly than the upper
and thus causing the stem to gi^ow upwards. In the homozygous recessive
is no movement of the hormone to the lower side;
no greater growth there, and the stem does not curve upwards.
(Based on the work of van Overbeek.)

"lazy" type, there
there

is

that growth in plants can be stimulated by a hormone known as
*'auxin."

When a normal maize plant is placed on its side, this

auxin diffuses because of gravity to the lower part of the stem.

Growth is then stimulated on the lower side, and the lower side
grows more rapidly than the upper. This greater growth of
the lower side makes that side longer than the upper and the
stem bends upward (Fig. 86). In lazy maize, there is no such
redistribution of the auxin, the low^er side does not grow more
rapidly than the upper, and the stem continues to grow straight
and does not bend upward. The la gene apparently interferes
with the distribution of auxin which occurs in La plants.
is

This

another example of a phenotypic effect produced by a gene

by the action of hormones.

Enzymes

311

Van Overbeek has also demonstrated another auxin relationship in maize. A recessive gene, na, when homozygous, produces
dwarf plants.

Studies of the auxin content of the stems show

that these dwarfs form auxin but apparently have an enzyme

which causes it to be oxidized. The oxidized auxin has little
or no growth-stimulating effect, and the unoxidized auxin content of nana plants is lower than in normal plants. This reduced
amount of active auxin prevents the cells of the internodes from
elongating to the same extent as cells in a normal plant, and the
net result is a plant with shorter internodes and therefore smaller
height.

Enzymes
It

has long been

known that the speed of certain chemical

reactions will be greatly accelerated or retarded if certain other

substances are present even in small amounts.

Substances which

thus affect the rate of a chemical reaction are called catalysts.
Similar substances may be found in living organisms, and many
of

them are very important in the metabolism of the plant or

These organic catalysts, found in living organisms, are
known as enzymes. Hormones are very similar but act on the
organism in a different region from the one where they are
animal.

produced.

That genes may act as enzymes or that they might produce
enzymes as intermediate products in the development of a character has long been postulated, but the actual cases in which an
enzyme has been identified are not yet numerous. One definite
enzyme has recently been demonstrated in white clover. Certain
chemical substances of the type known as glucosides can be converted into hydrocyanic acid if an appropriate enzyme is present.

Chemical tests have shown that white clover plants possessing
a certain dominant gene have a cyanogenetic glucoside in their

and those homozygous for the recessive allele lack this
Another dominant gene will produce the enzyme
glucoside.
whereas homozygous recessives will lack the enzyme. By appropriate crosses, plants can be obtained which (1) possess both
glucoside and enzyme, (2) possess the glucoside but not the enzyme, (3) possess the enzyme only, or (4) possess neither the
enzyme nor the glucoside. These plants are good illustrations
of the direct production of a specific enzyme by a certain gene.

tissues

Gene Action

312
Chlorophyll

Normal, green plants possess the green pigment, chlorophyll, so
Because of the presence of certain
necessary for their Ufe.
genes, however, many plants have a smaller amount of chlorophyll pigment than is normal for individuals of that species.
There are several types of chlorophyll-deficient plants which
differ chiefly in the

amount of chlorophyll present.

mally green plants have no chlorophyll and

live

Some nor-

only a short

time.

Other Plant Colors
Colors other than chlorophyll have been studied in a number
of plants both genetically and chemically, and it has been shown
in some instances that a certain gene acts by producing a specific

chemical reaction. Such information is largely due to the w^ork
of Wheldale (Mrs. Onslow), Scott-Moncrieff (Mrs. Meares), and
Lawrence. These studies show that genes can control the production of the yellow plastid pigments, of the soluble yellow
flavones, and of the anthocyanins, which produce the blue and

Other genes are known
which bring about the oxidation of pigments or cause differences
red colors so frequently found in plants.
in the acidity of the cells

where the pigments are found.

As

the anthocyanins are indicator pigments, being red in the presence of acids and blue in the presence of bases, the pH of the
cell

in

sap in which these pigments are dissolved is of importance

determining their color.

Lawrence, Scott-Moncrieff, and Sturgess have shown that in
hybrids between Streptocarpus Rexii (blue) and S. Dunnii (red),

seven types of flower color may be produced by the interaction

Chemical analyses of the flowers demonstrate what particular anthocyanin pigments are present in
each flower type. Flowers homozygous for a have no anthocyanin and are ivory white. Anthocyanin pigment is produced

of four pairs of alleles.

by the allele A.

This anthocyanin is derived from the chemical

substance, pelargonidin, in the absence of genes R and 0.
is
if

UK

present, the anthocyanins are derived from cyanidin, whereas
is

present, they are derived from delphinidin.

The pink

Gene R adds one hydroxyl or methoxyl group to the anthocyanin molecule and changes the color

and salmon types are rr oo.

Color in Animals

313

to magenta or rose, whereas gene

adds two such groups, chang-

ing the color to blue or mauve.

Thus it is seen that the more

the hydroxyl or methoxyl groups, the bluer the color.

It is also

seen that genes can act by bringing about chemical substitutions
in a

complex organic molecule.

Another gene, D, brings about

a further change, causing hexose molecules to be substituted at

and 5 on the pigment molecule, and in dd plants a
hexose and pentose molecule is at position 3 and no substitution
Structural formulae for three of these types are shown
at 5.

positions 3

in Fig. 87.
OCH^

HO /V^-

OH HO
OCR,
O- hexose

\^ \/

O- hexose

Fig. 87.

O- hexose- pentose

Salmon

Magenta

Blue

carpus.

Y ^^

O- hexose

O- hexose

Structural formulae

for three

anthocyauin types in Strepto-

(Redrawn from Lawrence, Scott-Moncrieff, and Sturgess in the

Journal of Genetics.)

Color in Animals

As in plants, enzymes appear to play an important role in the
determination of color in animals. The black pigments of animals belong to a group known as the melanin pigments, which
result from the reaction of a chromogen, such as tyrosin with
an enzyme. If either the chromogen or the enzyme is missing,
the pigment does not develop. One of the earlier studies shows
that in rabbits the presence or absence of color depends upon
the enzyme, for the chromogen is present even in albinos. Onslow found that in dark-colored animals enzymes of the type
known as peroxidases were present which react with tyrosin to
produce the melanin pigment; in albinos this enzyme was absent
and the pigment could not be formed. Wright has postulated
two enzymes to explain pigment in animals in general. Both
these enzymes can oxidize chromogen, but they act in different

ways.
viduals.

He assumes that the chromogen is present in all indiIf

one of the enzymes

is

present

(enzyme

I),

the

chromogen is oxidized and a yellow pigment is
second enzyme is also present (enzyme II), it interacts with
enzyme I and the two together react with the chromogen to
formed.

If the

Gene Action

314

produce a darker color such as brown or black. Both enzymes
are oxidizing enzymes, but enzyme II has no effect unless en-

zyme I is also present.

The exact color produced will depend

not only upon the presence of these two enzymes but also upon
their

relative

amounts and potencies.

As

these

factors

may

vary with different genes, a wide variety of colors may be proThus a number of different possibilities exists even
duced.
The important
with a system involving only two enzymes.
thing is that all these chemical- differences are the result of gene
action.

Vitamins in Neurospora
Beadle and Tatum have shown that certain gene mutations
can be induced which will prevent the synthesis of certain vitamins by the ascomycete Neurospora. They grew strains of this
fungus and then subjected them to X-rays just before meiosis
with the purpose possibly of inducing gene mutations.

Single-

spore cultures from the X-rayed material were then grown on a

medium containing as many as practicable of the chemical substances which this fungus normally synthesizes.
lished,

When estab-

they were transferred to culture media containing none

The theory was that if a strain grew on
medium but not on the other, a gene mutation

of these substances.

the "complete"

had occurred which prevented the mutated strain from synthesizing something, since the untreated fungus will grow well on
media which do not contain any of these substances. By then
growing the mutated strain on a series of media lacking different ones of these constituents, it could be determined which
About
particular substance the fungus could not synthesize.
2000 such strains were grown, and three were found that could
not grow on the '^incomplete or minimal" medium. Subsequent
tests showed that one strain could not synthesize vitamin Be
(pyridoxine), the second could not synthesize vitamin Bi (thiamine), or more exactly the thiazole half of the Bi molecule, and
the third strain could not synthesize para-aminobenzoic acid.
All three mutations were proved to be single-gene mutations.

and since
they are normally synthesized by this fungus, this is an example
of genes which normally act by the synthesis of certain chemical
Since

all

these substances are essential for growth,

growth substances.

Genes Affecting Form

315

Genes Affecting Form

Genes have been found which affect the ratio of growth of
organs or parts of organs and in that way determine the final
size and shape that an organ will have.
For example, Sinnott
showed that if two squash plants were crossed, one of which
bore essentially round fruit known as "sphere" and the other
a flattened type known as "disc," all the Fi plants had discshaped fruit, whereas the F2 segregated into a ratio of three
discs to one sphere.

Studies indicated that one locus

was in-

volved and that the gene for disc was completely dominant
over its allele for sphere. Such a statement, however, considers
only the end product and does not begin to show what

is

true relationship of these alleles as functional units and

the effect in one case

is

the

why

a disc-shaped and in the other case a

sphere-shaped fruit.

Other types of squashes and gourds are of
still a different shape.
Although the difference is sometimes
more
due to
than one gene, the important facts in all these questions of the development of form are that, irrespective of the

number of genes involved, the development of the fruit is under
genie control and it may be possible to determine at least some
of the steps by which two different genotypes produce two different phenotypes.

The difference in shape between the disc and sphere cucurbit
fruits is caused by a difference in shape which is present as soon
as the ovary primordia are.

In other words, these two genes act

very early in the life of the ovary, producing differences in the

two ovaries as soon as the ovaries can be identified.

Only very
small changes occur during all subsequent development of the
ovary and fruit, so that final differences in shape are due to initial differences in shape.
Such a discovery advances our knowledge slightly, but merely pushes the problem back a little. In-

now why the gene difference produces a difference in fruit shape, we ask why the gene difference produces

stead of asking

a difference in the shape of the ovary primordia.
Initial

shape differences do not explain

all

the differences in

the shape of the various races of gourds, for some gourds which
differ greatly in

shape when mature have ovary primordia that

are practically indistinguishable.

If two races have identical
ovary primordia, they will have fruit of the same size and shape

Gene Action

316

they grow at the same rate for all dimensions. If, however,
one developing ovary grows more rapidly in length, whereas
if

same rate in a second type or
the second race grows more rapidly in width, the two fruits will
have a very different shape when mature (Fig. 88).
length and width grow at the

1000

0.1

/I

10

100

Width (mm)
Developmental lines showing differences in relative growth of
Lines 6, 103 and 125 are
length and width in various cucurbit fruits.
Cucurhita Pepo. "Zucca" and "bottle" are varieties of Lagenaria vulgaris.
(From Sinnott in the American
Trichosanthes is the "snake gourd."
Fig. 88.

Naturalist.)

In Cucurhita Pepo the relative growth rates of the length and

width of the fruit are almost equal and large fruits have almost
the
is

same shape as small ones.

In the ''bottle" gourds growth

considerably faster in width, and the fruits become increas-

ingly wider the longer they grow; but the "Hercules club" or

"zucca" fruits grow more rapidly in length.

In contrast to

the disc and sphere fruits, the genes that produce differences in

the shape of the bottle and zucca types act after the ovary is

formed and throughout subsequent development.
In Cucurhita Pepo, where length and width increase at almost the same rate, the spindles of the dividing cells are
oriented in all directions approximately equally. In Lagenaria,

Genes Affecting Form

-317

the ovary grows considerably faster in length than in width, and
in this plant

more mitotic spindles run lengthwise or nearly so

than in any other direction; and in Trichosanthes, the "snake"
gourd in which the ovary grows much more rapidly in width
than in length, an even higher percentage of the spindles are
oriented parallel to the long axis of the developing fruit.

When

there is a tendency for the spindles to be oriented, those in meta-

phase and anaphase are even

less oriented

than those at telo-

Apparently the ultimate position of the spindle is determined by the polarity of the cytoplasmic body of the cell, but
phase.

position

somewhat until it settles down at

telophase to the final position.

This cytoplasmic polarity of the

the spindle shifts

its

ovary is a determining factor in the ultimate shape
How
of the ovary.
It is, of course, itself under genie control.
the "shape" genes affect this polarity of the cytoplasm is not
cells of the

easily determined.

Some interesting studies of a similar nature were made by
W. G. and C. Y. Whaley on leaves of the common nasturtium
of

the garden, belonging to the genus Tropaeolum.

leaves of several shapes and sizes were found.

[Mature

In the juvenile

condition, all types have leaves with prominent lobes and sinuses.

In one type whose genetic constitution is II uu, the lobes enlarge

same rate as the sinuses, and the mature leaf is
deeply lobed and looks like merely an enlarged version of the
juvenile leaf.
AVhen the dominant allele U is present, as in
II U- plants, the sinuses grow somewhat more rapidly than the
In the
lobes, and the mature leaf is roundly lobed in outline.
presence of gene L, as in L- U- and L- uu plants, the growth of
the sinuses is very much more rapid than of the lobes and the
mature leaves are orbicular (Fig. 89). The presence of L and
U in the same plant also appears to produce a greater absolute
at about the

growth.

Studies of

cell size in

these three types indicates that

more cell divisions
in the sinus regions of the roundly lobed and orbicular types
than in the acutely lobed type, and, therefore, there are more
in

the youngest juvenile leaves there are

cells.

Later, during the period of cell expansion, all the cells

of a given tissue tend to expand to approximately the same size.

Consequently, the leaves which have more cells per unit of area

have shallower sinuses w^hen mature and sometimes become rounded. The direct action of the gene seems to be
in the sinuses

Gene Action

318

the control of cell division in the very young leaves so that some

forms have more and smaller

cells

whereas others have fewer

The results of the different number of cells
are leaves of different shape. Whereas superficial studies would
but larger

cells.

Leaf types in the common nasturtium and their development:
a juvenile leaf; (2) an acutely lobed leaf of the genotype II uu; (3) a
roundly lobed type, UU—', (4) the orbicular type, L— uu. (Courtesy Dr.
Fig. 89.

(1)

W. G. Whaley in the American Journal of Botany.)
tend to have us speak of a gene "for round leaves/' a more
accurate statement would be a gene ''for more cells per unit of
area in the sinuses of juvenile leaves."

Genes and Cytoplasm
Although the exact role of the cytoplasm in heredity is not
known, there is much evidence that the genes interact with the
cytoplasm

in such a

way that the cytoplasm may be changed

as the result of the action of genes.

The individual begins his

or her development under the influence of a certain cytoplasmic

pattern found in the egg, but his or her
influence the cytoplasm that
in the eggs of

it

own

genes

may so

would have a different pattern

subsequent generations.

The coiling of snails illustrates the role of the maternal cytoplasm in certain cases.

In the gasteropod mollusks, the mature

shell is twisted into either a right- or left-handed spiral.

long been

It has

known that the type is determined by the position

of the mitotic spindle at the second or perhaps even at the first

division of the egg.

Thus, at a very early stage of ontogeny,

the type of spiral

determined.

acter

is

is

interesting for,

although

The inheritance of this charit

appears to be dependent

Genes and Cytoplasm

319

upon a single pair of alleles, the expression seems to be delayed
one generation.
Apparently left-handed (sinistral) coiling is
Let us use I to designate
the gene for left-handed coiling and L the gene for the rightrecessive to right-handed

(dextral).

handed type.
In the cross LI X H (dextral female

X sinistral male), half the

They are all coiled dextrally,
however, because their type of coiling was initiated under the
offspring are LI

and half are II.

influence of the cytoplasm of the egg from which they were

produced, and this egg, in turn, had developed under the influence of the genotype of their mother.

type female

is

crossed with a

Similarly,

if

a sinistral-

homozygous dextral-type male,

the offspring are all LI; but they all coil to the left because they
started to coil in that direction very early in ontogeny under the
influence of the cytoplasm of the egg produced in a snail which

Thus in the cross II X LL, the Fi
are sinistral but LI, all the r2 are dextral, and the Fs segregate
1 ratio.
The particular type of coiling does not indiinto a 3
cate the genotype of the individual but does show the genotype

was homozygous for gene
:

of its mother.

I.

Chapter 21

INTERACTION OF GENES
In Chapter 9 dihybrid ratios were described in which one
pair of genes affected one part of the plant and the other pair
affected

an entirely different part.

In the maize cross, PlPl

CrCr X plpl crcr, the genes PI and pi affect the color of the
plant, and Cr and cr determine whether the leaves will be smooth
or crinkly.
Examples of dihybrid ratios where two different
regions of the organisms are involved could be cited by the
thousands. Less numerous but by no means rare are cases where
the two pairs of genes affect the same part of a plant or animal.
In the simplest situation of gene interaction in a dihybrid
both pairs of genes affect the same part of the same organ. Four

phenotypes are produced, for the AB, Ah, aB, and ab
classes are all phenotypically different from one another.
In
the evening primrose, Oenothera Lamarckiana, the nonallelic
different

genes S and

T^

together produce a yellow flower; S and v pro-

duce a flower that

is

old-gold in color;

and V together pro-

s

duce a sulfur-colored flower; and s and v interact to produce a

Thus a cross between a homozygous sulfur-colored plant (mutant sulfurea) and a homozygous
old-gold (mutant vetaurea) would produce a yellow-flowered Fi.
The F2 would segregate into 9*SF (yellow) 2>Sv (old-gold) 3sF
flower called '^gold-center."

:

(sulfur)

:

Isv (gold-center).

This

is

:

normal dihybrid

a

ratio,

but all four genes are exerting an effect on the same part of the
organism.

If

one pair of genes

is

homozygous and the other

heterozygous, the offspring will show typical monohybrid F2
ratios, as:

SSVv (yellow) X self = 3>SF (yellow)

ISv (old-gold)

:

X self = 3sF (sulfur) Isv (gold-center)
SsVV (yellow) X self = 3<SF (yellow) UV (sulfur)
Ssvv (old-gold) X self = ZSv (old-gold) \sv (gold-center)
ssVv

(sulfur)

:

:

:

Both pairs of genes alone will segregate 3 1 ratios in the F2,
but the actual color produced by the 5 and s genes will depend
:

320

Epistasis of a Dominant

Gene

321

on whether V or v is present; and the phenotypes produced by
V or V will depend upon whether the plant also has S or s. The
inheritance of the ''rose," "pea," and "walnut" combs in fowl is
of a similar nature,

depending upon the interaction of two pairs

of nonallelic genes.

Epistasis of a Dominant Gene

Two nonallelic genes do not always cooperate equally in the
production of a different character, for sometimes one of them
has so strong a reaction that it prevails over the other.

Let us

assume that gene A is dominant over a and that B is dominant
over

b.

It is

conceivable that the product of gene A could be

would prevail over the products of both B and
b and make the AB and Ab phenotypes identical. Such reactions
do occur and are probably of the same nature as the simple
dominance of one allele over the other. The term "dominance,"
however, is best reserved for the relation between two alleles.
When one gene exerts a dominating influence over another gene
which is not an allele, the first gene is said to be epistatic and
the gene which is suppressed is hypostatic. The phenomenon is
so potent that it

called epistasis.

An excellent example of the epistasis of a dominant gene is
found in the summer squash. Sinnott and Durham showed that
two pairs of genes for fruit color were interacting in an epistatichypostatic relationship.

Gene

W

is

dominant to w and is epi-

Y and y genes. A plant with one or two W genes
has white fruit. The other genes, Y and y, exert their effect

static to the

only in ww plants.

Plants which are ww and have one or two

Y genes have yellow fruit, whereas ww yy plants have green
fruit.

If a white-fruited plant

hypostatic dominant gene

Fi is

homozygous for

Y is crossed with a green plant, the

Ww Yy and has white fruit.

The F2 segregates as follows:

37 _^ QWY

= 12 white
^ly

->

3Wy

.3F -* SwY

= 3yeUow

—

= 1 green

Iw
'I2/

W and for the

>

Iwy

Interaction of Genes

322

In these plants, genes w and Y interact to give yellow and
interacts with both Y
w and y interact to produce green, but

W

and y to produce the same character, white. A testcross of the
heterozygote to a green plant would result in a ratio of 2 white
(IWY + IWy) 1 yellow (wY) 1 green (wy).
:

:

TABLE 17
Fi AND F2 FROM Various Combinations of Crosses among Rough-, Smooth-,

Near-Smooth, and Intermediate-Awned Types of Durum Wheat
(From work of Knowles in the Canadian Journal of Research.)

Phenotypes of

Epistasis of a Recessive

Gene

323

Epistasis of a Recessive Gene

In summer squash, one dominant gene is epistatie, producing
the same result when interacting with either the dominant or
the recessive of the other pair. Similarly, a recessive gene may

be epistatie and, if so, the F2 dihybrid ratio becomes 9:3:4.
An example of the epistasis of a recessive gene is found in the

common bean, Phaseolus vulgaris. Gene P is dominant to p and
Genes P and B interact to produce a purple color
on the seed coat, and P and b interact to produce a yellow or
brown color. The recessive gene p, however, is epistatie to the
other genes and produces a white seed coat with either of them.
gene B to b.

This relationship could be illustrated by a "checkerboard," as
in Fig. 90.

Many examples of the epistasis of a recessive gene, resulting
4 ratio, have been found. Baur showed that in the
snapdragon, a white-flowered and an ivory-flowered plant, when

in a 9

:

3

:

crossed, produce a magenta-flowered Fi, while the F2 segregates

magenta 3 ivory 4 white. In flax, Linum
usitatissimum, Miss Tammes showed that a lilac-flowered plant
into a ratio of 9

:

:

crossed with a certain type of white-flowered plant produces a

blue-flowered Fi, whereas the F2 ratio is 9 blue

:

3 lilac

:

4 white.

The relationship is not confined to plants. In such rodents as
the mouse and the guinea pig, the normal wild type has a peculiar
gray color, called agouti.

C and A.

acting genes,

This color is the result of two interIf two rodents which are heterozygous

for both genes are crossed, the offspring fall into the ratio of 9

agouti {CA)

:

3 black [Ca)

:

4 white [cA

Most epistatie recessive genes

+ lea).

are genes affecting color.

A

possible chemical explanation for them was suggested a number

and throws some light on the general question of
gene interaction. It can be assumed that (in the general situation) gene A produces a colored substance and that a produces
a colorless substance. These substances would be chemical compounds. It can be further assumed that B produces a chemical
that can react with the colored substance produced by A to
change its color. In the specific example of ShuU's beans, P proof years ago

duces a yellow pigment.

This substance reacts chemically with

the enzyme secreted by B so that it is converted from a yellow

Interaction of Genes

324

substance to a purple one.

Pb

Thus PB plants are purple.

Since

have no color-changing enzyme, they are yellow.
Plants with the genes pB and pb have no colored substance to
plants

begin with and are white.

They are alike because B, the enzyme,

has no colored substance with which to react and does not affect
the gene product of p any more than

b.

X

Pi

PPBB

ppbb

F,

PpBb

Pb

pB

pb

PPBB

PPBb

PpBB

PpBb

PPBb

PPbb

PpBb

Ppbb

a:)

CD

PpBB

PpBb

PpBb

Ppbb

ppBb

Total:

9PB = purple
3Pb = yellow
3Pf 1= white

Pb

pB

ppBB

CD

pb

ppBb

ppbb

Checkerboard showing the 9:3:4 ratio in beans. A cross of
a homozygous purple, PP BE, and a white, pp bb, produces a purple Fi
(PpBb). The F2 segregates into 9 purple {P B)
4 white
3 yellow (Pb)
(SpB and Ipb). This can possibly be explained by assuming that P
produces a colored and p a colorless chemical compound and that the
Fig. 90.

:

:

colored compound is j^ellow in the presence of gene b but can be changed
to purple by the enzyme B.

(Based on the work of Dr. G. H. Shull.)

Inhibiting Genes

325

Inhibiting Genes

Since the dominant gene

W in squash

is

epistatic over Y,

W

and w produce two different phenotypes in the presence of either
Y- or yy genotypes, but the Y and y genes produce two different phenotypes only when the other recessive, w, is homozygous. The recessive gene a in rodents is epistatic to C and c so
that the latter genes produce two different phenotypes in the
presence of either A or a, whereas genes A and a produce two
phenotypes only in the presence of the other dominant, C. In
some organisms two genes, A and a, produce two different phenotypes in the presence of B but produce only one when b is homozygous, whereas genes B and b produce two phenotypes only in
the presence of homozygous a and only one when A

is

present.

Such cases are classically called inhibiting factors, but this situation has been appropriately called dominant and recessive epistasis by Snyder.
The classical example of this type of gene interaction is found
in poultry.
If white Leghorns are crossed with white Plymouth
Rocks, the Fi is white, but the Fo segregates into 13 white 3
:

Two pairs of genes interact to produce color. Gene C
is dominant over c, and / is dominant over
Genes C and i
colored.

i.

together produce a colored fowl, but the combinations CI,

cl,

and ci are white. Gene C is thought to be a dominant gene
which would produce color, but / is regarded as a gene that inWhite Leghorns
hibits the action of the gene product of C.
are homozygous for C and would be colored except for the fact
that they are also homozygous for /, which inhibits C from producing color. White Plymouth Rocks are cc ii and are white
because they lack any gene that can produce color. A cross of
these two breeds produces the following results:
White Plymouth Rock
cc ii

Fi: Cc Ii

X

White Leghorn

CC II

= white because of inhibiting gene

— 9CI = white because of inhibiting gene
3C<^
— dCi = colored because of no inhibition
F2:
•3/ — 3c/ = white because of no color-producing gene
and a color inhibitor
= white because of no color-producing gene
^li —
^3/

"Ii

lc\^

lei

Interaction of Genes

326

A 13

:

3 ratio

is

obviously a case of a 9

:

3

:

3

:

1 ratio in

which three of the terms appear alike. Independently, the /
and i genes give a 3 1 ratio in the presence of C but not in
:

cc individuals.

Thus CC II X CC ii gives a white Fi [CC li)

and an F2 ratio of 3 white {CI) 1 colored [Ci) but cell X
CC ii gives a white Fi (cc Ii) and all white in the F2 (3c/ + lei).
Similarly, the C and c genes give a 3
1 ratio in ii fowl but not
:

;

:

when gene / is present.

An inhibiting gene is generally regarded

as a gene that has no effect of its own but can act only to inhibit

a nonallelic gene.

In this sense, I and i produce no phenotypic

C is present and therefore produce two different
phenotypes only in fowl that also have the gene C. Similar ineffect unless

hibiting genes have been identified in maize (Fig. 91)

and other

organisms.

Complementary Genes

The term "complementary factors" has been applied to any
two nonallelic genes that act together to produce a phenotype
different from that produced by either alone.
The term as
originally proposed, however, was restricted to a case in which
two nonallelic dominants produced one phenotype, whereas the
two recessives or either dominant with the other recessive proBateson in 1905 discovered that if
he crossed two white-flowered strains of the Emily Henderson
sweet pea, purple-flowered plants were produced in the Fi. The
two strains were phenotypically identical in every respect but
they must have been different genotypically as, otherwise, the
Fi would have been white-flowered. When the F2 generation
was raised, nine-sixteenths were purple-flowered and the other
This peculiar result can be exseven-sixteenths were white.
plained if it is assumed that each strain had two pairs of genes
for flower color, that these pairs are in different chromosomes,
and that the gene products of the two dominants interact to
produce purple flowers, whereas all other gene combinations give
white flowers. If one gene pair is C and c and the other is P
and p, the original parents would have been ccPP and CCpp.
Both parents were homozygous as these strains had been raised
duced a second phenotype.

separately and inbred for a number of generations.

When these

plants were crossed, the Fi was CcPp, and had purple flowers.
The F2 segregated as in Fig. 92. The F2 ratio is a regular di-

C omplementary Genes

327

As to external appearance, however,
it so happens that the interactions of C and p, of c and P, and of
hybrid ratio genotypically.

Fig. 91.

Segregation of colored grains in ears of maize.

segregating 3 colored

{ICC -\-2Cc)

:

noncolored

1

segregating for the color-inhibiting gene,
ing the ratio

:

13 noncolored

/,

(cc).

Left, an ear

Right, an ear

as well as for C, thus produc-

(9C7-j-3c7-f-lcO :3 colored (CO. These

ears are also segregating for other genes, as sugary.

(Photogi'aph by Dr.

W. Brooks Hamilton.)

and p all produce flowers that are indistinguishable in appearance so that the normal 9:3:3:1 ratio becomes modified to

c

9

:

7.

On

a chemical

analogy,

C might produce

a

colorless

Interaction of Genes

328

pigment which could be converted into purple by the
Thus Cp plants would be white because
colorless enzyme, P.
there was no enzyme present to convert the white pigment into
purple, whereas the cP and cp plants would be white because
there was no pigment present.
These complementary genes can be considered as an example
(white)

of epistasis in
static to

both

which two independent recessive genes are epialleles of the other pair.

Thus in the presence

of cc, neither the P nor the p genes show a different expression,
whereas in the presence of pp, both C and c produce the same

CP
CCPP
purple

Cp

cP

cp

C omplementary Genes

329

and if B and h produced only colorless substances, the conditions
would be fulfilled. By this theory, the substances produced by
A and a would be different chemically although they were both

Fig. 93.
1

Segregation in ears of maize.

Lejt, ratio of 12 white

:

3 purple

:

AA CC RR PrPr ii X AA CC RR prpr II. Center, a
7 white from a cross AA cc rr PrPr X AA CC RR PrPr.

red from the cross

ratio of 9 purple

:

Right, a ratio of 9 starchy (SuSh)
su sh) from the cross SiiSu shsh

:

(suSh +
All these ratios are F2 ratios,

3 shrunken (Sush)

X susu ShSh.

:

4 sweet

and the genotypes given are those of the Pi generations. In the ear at the
left it is difficult to distinguish between the purple and red kernels in a
black-and-white illustration. (Photographs by Dr. W. Brooks Hamilton.)
yellow, so that the Ab plants would contain a different chemical

substance from that found in the aB and ab plants.
is

That this

not pure speculation was shown when Blakeslee dipped the

flowers

of

all

his

yellow-flowered plants in dilute potassium

Interaction of Genes

330

This alkah turned the flowers of three-sevenths of

hydroxide.

the yellow type a reddish color, and the flowers of the other

four-sevenths turned a very deep purple.

Very probably the

plants whose flowers turned reddish were genotypieally the

type and the others were aB and ab.
9

:

7 ratio

is

resolved into a 9

:

3

:

Ab

By this chemical test, the

4 ratio.

The difference be-

tween them is that in the 9:3:4 ratio A produces a substance
different in appearance as well as in chemical nature from that
produced by a.
Duplicate Genes

In some plants and animals, two identical pairs of genes are
present in different chromosomes, so that A is dominant over a^

and B, which is the same as A, is dominant over b, which is the
same as a. These are called duplicate genes, and it is sometimes believed that the presence of such genes indicates more
or less remote polyploidy. It is conventional today to designate
two such pairs of genes by the same letter followed by different
numerical subscripts, as Aiai and ^2^2. Because Ai produces
the same phenotype as A2, the Aiao and ai^2 classes are the same
and are different from the aia2 class. In some cases Ai and A2
together produce the

same phenotype as Aia2 or aiA2; in other

cases the two dominants interact to produce something different.

For example, in the common shepherd 's-purse. Cay sella bursapastoris, which is often found in waste places in America, the
seed pod, or capsule,

known

species

is

triangular, but in one of the less well-

Capsella Heegeri, from Germany, the capsules

The
and appear round in cross-section.
triangular-shaped capsule is dominant over the round type, but
in typical plants two pairs of genes for capsule shape are presThese pairs of genes have been designated Cc and Dd.
ent.
(These symbols were chosen before the present-day system was
adopted of designating duplicate genes by the same symbol followed by a different subscript. These gene pairs would now
be designated T^t-^ and ^2^2-) Capsella bur sa-past oris is homozygous for the two dominant genes whereas C. Heegeri has the
genetic constitution ccdd.
The Fi has triangular capsules and
is genotypieally CcDd whereas the phenotypic F2 ratio is 15
are

spindle-shaped

triangular

:

1

round.

The

plants with triangular-shaped cap-

Cumulative Duplicate Genes

331

CD, Cd, or cD types; the round-capsuled plants
The segregation of these types in the F2 is:

sules are the

are ccdd.

/3D -^ 9Ci)—
3C<(

= 15

lc<

\

Id

^ led — =1

Duplicate genes are common among plants but less so in animals.

They probably indicate that the plant that contains them

has more than two sets of chromosomes, a situation discussed in

They can be considered as duplicate dominant epistatic genes since C and c produce the same phenotype
Chapters 26 and 27.

in the presence of D, whereas

D and d give plants indistinguish-

able phenotypically in the presence of C.

Cumulative Duplicate Genes

two duplicate dominant genes interact to produce a result
from that produced by either one plus the recessive
allele of the other, the 15
1 ratio becomes 9:6:1.
A ratio of
this sort was reported by Miyake and Imai for grain color in
barley.
Some plants have purple grains and others have white
grains, and the former type is dominant over the latter. When
a dark purple-grained and a white-grained plant were crossed,
the F2 ratio was 15 purple 1 white; but the purple was not
If

different

:

:

same intensity in all the purple-grained plants. This
ratio w^as caused by two pairs of duplicate genes, Pi and Po,
which interacted so that the plants with the two dominant genes
Pi and P2 were of a deeper purple than those with Pi and p2
or with pi and P2 genes. These two nonallelic dominants have
a cumulative or additive effect such as was not found for capof the

sule shape in Capsella.

Nilsson-Ehle showed that the situation in wheat is even more
complex, for not only are duplicate genes present but there
incomplete dominance as well.

is

Grain color is either red or white,

and the intensity of the red color depends upon the number of
The genes can be designated
color-producing genes present.
If a deep red-grained plant, RiRi R2R2 is
Ri, ^1, R2, and ro.

Interaction of Genes

332

crossed with a white, riVi r2r2, the Fi

shade than its red parent.

is

red but

is

of a Ughter

The F2 plants are:

— very deep red — 4 genes for red
— 3 genes for red
—deep red
— 3 genes for red
2 Riri R2R2 —deep red
4 Riri R2r2 — intermediate red — 2 genes for red
—intermediate red—2 genes for red
RiRi
— gene for red
—pale red
2 Rivi
R2R2 — intermediate red — 2 genes for red
— gene for red
—pale red
2
— genes for red
—white
1

RiRi R2R2

2 RiRi i?2^2

r2r2

1

r2r2

1

riri

i^2^2

1

1 riVi

r2/'2

1 rir\

If like

gate into

red

:

%

phenotypes are classed together, the F2 would segre^4 deep red
%q intermediate
YiQ very deep red
:

pale red

:

%6

white.

:

When there are more than two

duplicate genes with a cumulative action, and dominance

is

in-

complete, the F2 ratio of phenotypes becomes even more complex.
Interaction in Polyhybrids

The simplest examples of gene interaction involve two pairs
of genes, but in many instances three or more pairs interact in
various ways.

Gene Interaction in Primula.

An excellent example of inter-

action in polyhybrids is found in the Chinese primrose, Primula

The form of the leaf is due to the interaction of at
least seven pairs of genes, and the normal type is produced by
all the dominants together.
The normal leaf form is called
"palm" (Fig. 94). In this type the clefts or incisions are sharp

sinensis.

and are arranged so that the leaf is reminiscent of the fanshaped type of palm leaves. Other types are the "tongue" and
"oak."

In the "tongue" the leaf is elongated and the clefts are

slight.

In the "oak" the lobes are fewer than in the "palm"

and the clefts between the lobes are so deep as to extend almost
to the midrib.

If

an "oak" is crossed with a "tongue," the Fi

"palm" and the F2 consists of 9 "palm" 3 "tongue" 3
"oak" 1 "tongue-oak." The last type is easily distinguishable
from the others and resembles a combination of a "tongue" and
an "oak" type. The "tongue" plants are homozygous for the
recessive gene t and also have the gene
in homozygous or
heterozygous condition. The "oak" plants are 00 and have one
is

:

:

:

Interaction in Polyhybrids
or two

T genes.

The Fi and F2 "palm" plants are T-0-; the

"oak-tongue" type is tt 00.
these to give

still

333

Other genes may also interact with

different types.

The type known as "fern"

Gene interaction in Primula. An oak-leaved plant, 00 TT
was crossed with a tongue, 00 tt {upper right), to form a
palm type, Oo Tt {upper center). The F2 segregated into the four types in
the bottom row from left to right: 9 palm {0 T)
3 oak {o T)
3 tongue
{0 t) 1 oak-tongue (o 0. (Photograph by Dr. W. Brooks Hamilton from
herbarium material furnished by Dr. Edgar Anderson.)
Fig.

94.

{upper

left),

:

:

:

(Fig. 95)

has narrower leaves than the "palm"; the clefts are

Such plants are produced by
the genes yy in cooperation with the dominant genes T and 0.
arranged as in a typical fern leaf.

Interaction of Genes

334

A "palm" is produced by Y, 0, and T acting together, and a
"fern-oak" {yyooTT) crossed with a "tongue" {YY 00 tt)

Fig. 95.

Upper left,

Leaf types in Primula resulting from gene interaction.

fern-oak, y o T; upper right, fern, y O T; lower left, fern-oak-tongue, y o t;

(Photograph by Dr. W. Brooks Hamilton from
herbarium material furnished by Dr. Edgar Anderson.)
lower right, a crimp tj^pe.

would give a "palm"
would be:
27 "palm"
9 "fern"

9 "oak"
9 "tongue"

{Yy OoTt).

—YOT
—yOT
—YoT
YOt

The F2 phenotypic

3 "fern-oak"

—yoT

3 "fern-tongue"

—ijOt

3 "oak-tongue"

—Yot

1

"fern-oak- tongue"

y o

ratio

t

Even this, however, does not explain the complete situation
Primula sinensis. Other types are "maple," claw," and two
types with crimped leaves. Each crimped type is the result of
in

Interaction in Polyhybrids

335

All seven pairs of genes interact to

different recessive genes.

produce a large number of phenotypes.

The Wild-Type Drosophila. Other examples could be given
of the interaction of a number of genes. In Drosophila melanogaster, the various eye colors

are due to nonallelic, recessive

genes such as white [w], ruby {rh)

,

vermilion {v), garnet (g),

and pink
The normal, or wild-type, fly is red-eyed and results from
[p).
the interaction of the dominant alleles of all the above genes.
Its formula would therefore be
Rb V G Car Pr Se St P. It is
not literally correct to say that red eye is dominant to white.
The formula for white eye is wRbVGCarPrSeStP, and a
more correct statement is that the wild-type eye is produced by
a certain combination of genes, whereas the white eye is produced by exactly the same genes with the substitution of the
Similarly, ruby-eyed
recessive w for the dominant w+ or W.
flies have the formula
rb V G Car Pr Se St P, purple-eyed flies
are
RbV G Car pr Se St P, and flies with pink eyes are Rb
V G Car Pr Se St p. Since a wild-type and a white-eyed fly
differ only by the presence of
or w, it is customary to assume
that all the other dominants are present and to omit them from
the formula. In like manner, it is much simpler to state that a
purple-eyed fly has purple eyes because it is homozygous for pr
and to omit the additional requirement that all the other domiIt must always be understood,
nant genes must be present.
however, that eye color is due not to one gene alone but to the
carnation [car), purple (pr), sepia (se), scarlet

{st)

,

W

W

W

W

W

interaction of many genes.

Complementary Genes in Polyhybrids. When three or more
of genes inj:eract, dominant and recessive epistatic, inhibiting genes and complementary and duplicate genes may be
involved. If three complementary genes are interacting, so that
all three dominants produce one character, such as color, and

pairs

all

other combinations of genes produce a different character,

such as white, the F2 ratio would be 27 colored
such genes would give 81 colored 175 white.

:

37 white.

Four

:

Duplicate Genes in Polyhybrids.

If three duplicate noncumu-

dominant genes are interacting, the F2 ratio will be 63
dominants to one recessive, whereas four such genes will result

lative,

in a ratio of 255

:

1.

If three pairs of duplicate,

cumulative

genes that show dominance are present, the F2 will be in the

Interaction of Genes

336

ratio of 27 triple dominant

nant

:

1

recessive.

If

:

27 double dominant

incomplete dominance, the situation

Ehle found in wheat.

:

9 single domi-

such duplicate, cumulative genes show
the one that Nilsson-

is

In some strains red color in the grain

results from the action of two pairs of genes, but in other strains,

three such pairs are found, RiRi, R2R2, and RsR^.

In these

upon the number of large-letWhen a very deep red plant {RiRi R2R2 RsRn) is

strains the shade of red depends

tered genes.

crossed with a white

(r 1^1 ^2^2 ^3^3),

the Fi is intermediate (RiVi

722^2-^3^3) and the F2 ratio is:

—
—
—deep red —
20 — intermediate —
15— pale red
—
6— very pale red —
—
—white
1— deepest red

6
V.
15

-very deep red

1

Duplicate,

cumulative,

(6 genes for red)
(5 genes for red)
(4 genes for red)
(3 genes for red)
(2 genes for red)
(1

gene for red)

(0 genes for red)

dominant

incompletely

genes

and

their relation to quantitative characters are discussed further in

the next chapter.

Modifying Genes
In the above examples of gene interaction, the genes acted

apparently with relatively equal weight.

In a number of in-

stances, however, a certain character is determined by one gene,

but is modified slightly by others.

All the interacting genes in

do not appear to have equal strength, but there seems
to be one "main" gene whose effect can be varied slightly by
Such minor genes are
other, often numerous, "minor" genes.
this case

known as modifying genes because they produce no effect other
than a slight modification of a character which is determined
fundamentally by another gene. A good example of modifying
genes

is

the genes which modify gene

results in a coat with white spots.
is

determined by these other genes.

the area covered

W in mice, a gene that

The extent of the spotting
If

only a few are present,

by the white spots is small; but

in

animals

with more such genes, the white area is increased so that some
animals are almost entirely white. That these are modifying
genes

is

shown by the fact that they have no effect unless the

"major" gene, W, is present.

In

ww mice, there are no white

Modifying Genes
spots on the coat, no matter

337

how many modifying genes are

present.

Another excellent example is the modifiers of eosin eye in
Drosophila melanog aster. Eosin is one of the series of multiple
alleles at the white locus, and eosin-eyed flies are w^w^ (plus all
The shade of the eosin
the dominants mentioned previously).
color may vary from light to dark, depending upon the presence
of several modifying genes.
If a nonallelic gene called dai^k is
present, the eosin color is darker than in the absence of the
dark gene. There are seven genes that have a lightening effect
on the eosin, and some lighten the color much more than others.
Pinkish lightens the color slightly, and the gene known as whitIntermediate
ing lightens it so much that it is almost white.
shades are produced by five genes known as cream c, cream b,
cream a, cream ///, and cream //. They are all modifying genes,
because their only effect is to vary slightly the expression of a
character determined fundamentally by another gene.
An interesting and rather unusual group of modifying genes
In
affects the frequency with which another gene mutates.
Drosophila virilis, a species closely related to the more familiar
melanogaster, is a gene known as ''miniature-gamma" {mt-y)
which produces a miniature wing instead of one of normal size.
This gene, however, has a peculiar property of suddenly mutating back to the wild-type or normal condition. In the developing wing of a miniature-gamma fly, all the cells naturally are
homozygous for mt-y, but here and there the gene in one of the
All the cells that develop from
cells of the wing will mutate.
^

Thus the wing will be a mosaic of
miniature and normal tissue. This is the effect of the "main"
gene, and the modifying genes stimulate the rate of this reverse

these cells will be normal.

mutation greatly.

Two of these modifying genes are dominants,

S-1 and S-3; the other, s-2, is a recessive.

A miniature fly homo-

zygous for S-2 was crossed with an s-2 s-2 miniature. All the
Fo flies were miniature, but one-quarter were homozygous for

Out of 796 F2 flies, Demerec found that 584 showed little
or no change of mt-y to the dominant allele and therefore little
or no mosaicism in the wing, while the other 212 flies had mosaic
wings showing that mosaic formation is greatly stimulated by
genes s-2. Genes *S-1, s-2, and *S-3 are definitely modifying genes
and produce no effect except in mt-y mt-y flies.

s-2.

Interaction of Genes

338

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Give the phenotypes of the following crosses made between plants
of Oenothera Lamarckiana:
1.

VV

(a)

Ss Vv X ss

vv

(d)

Ss Vv X ss

(b)

Ss Vv X Ss

VV

(e)

Ss Vv X SS vv

(c)

Ss Vv X SS Vv

(/)

Ss Vv X Ss Vv

In poultry, what are the results obtained from crossing a walnutcombed Fi fowl with (a) a pure-bred pea, (b) a pure-bred rose, and (c) a
2.

single?

What are the offspring from crossing a single with (a) a heterozy-

gous rose and (6) a heterozygous pea?
3. In rats, gene C produces a pigmented coat, whereas c produces an
unpigmented or albino coat. Genes A and R interact to produce gray
fur;

A with homozygous r results in yellow; aa with R produces black;

aa rr animals are cream.
if

These four coat colors, however, are found only

C is also present. What are the results of the following crosses?
(a)

CC Aa Rr X CC Aa Rr

(c)

CC Aa Rr X CC Aa rr

(b)

CC Aa Rr X CC aa Rr

(d)

CC Aa Rr X CC aa rr

Give the phenotypes of the offspring of the following rat crosses
(see problem 3)
4.

(a)

CC aa Rr X cc aa Rr

(/)

CC Aa rr X cc Aa rr

(b)

Cc aa Rr X Cc aa Rr

(g)

Cc Aarr X Cc Aa rr

(c)

Cc aa Rr X cc aa Rr

(h)

Cc

(d)

Cc aa

X Cc aa Rr

(i)

Cc aa

(e)

cc

rr

Aa rr X cc Aa rr
rr

X Cc Aa rr

Aa Rr X cc Aa Rr

In flax, two blue-flowered plants were crossed, and the offspring
segregated into 65 blue, 20 lilac, and 27 white. What were the genotypes
5.

of the parents?
6.

fruit.

W produces white and gene w colored
Y if combined with ww colors the fruit yellow, whereas

In the summer squash, gene

Gene

vrw yy plants have green fruit.

What are the phenotypes and genotypes

of the offspring of the following crosses?
(a)

WW YY X Ww yy

Ww Yy X Ww Yy
(c) Ww Yy X low yy

(6)

(d)

Ww

(e)

WW yy X ww YY

ijy

X ww Yy

Questions and Problems
7.

339

In squash (see question 6), a yellow-fruited plant crossed with a

white-fruited one produced the following offspring: 46 white

13 green.
8.

35 yellow

:

What are the genotypes of the parents?

In squash (see question

crossed.

:

6),

a

WW yy and a ww YY plant were

By selfing the F2 plants, what would be the chance of producing

a pure-breeding white-fruited strain?
9.

A pure-bred White Leghorn fowl is crossed with a pure-bred

Plymouth Rock. Two Fi birds were mated. What are the phenotypes
and genotypes of the F2?
10. What phenotypes are produced by crossing the Fi obtained in
question 9 with (1) a pure-bred White Leghorn and (2) a pure-bred
Plymouth Rock?
11. Two purple-flowered Emily Henderson sweet peas, when crossed,
produced 94 purple- and 75 white-flowered plants. Statistically, could
this be considered a 1
If not, how would you interpret it, and
1 ratio?
what would be the genotypes of the parents?
12. What offspring are produced from the following crosses in the Emily
Henderson sweet pea?
:

13.

Pp X Cc Pp

(a)

CC pp X cc Pp

(d)

Cc

(b)

Cc

Pp X cc pp

(e)

Cc pp

(c)

Cc pp

XccPp

if)

CC Pp X cc pp

X cc PP

In poultry. Black Langshans have feathered shanks and Buff

Rocks have shanks without feathers. When crossed, these breeds produced a feathered Fi. Two Fi's were crossed, and the F2 segregated
into 15 feathered
14.

:

1

unfeathered.

Explain.

In poultry, feathered shanks are dominant over unfeathered and

What are the offspring

are the result of the duplicate genes Fi and F2.
of the following crosses:

15.

(a)

FJi F2/2 X /i/i /2/2

ib)

7^1/1/2/2

(C)

/l/l

XFi/1/2/2

F2f2XFif1/2/2

In shepherd 's-purse, triangular capsule

is

dominant over round

and is due to the duplicate genes, C and D. What are the genotypes of
the parents that would produce the following results?
(a)

15 triangular

;

Interaction of Genes

340

Two pairs of cumulative,
Two light purple plants,

In barley, purple is dominant over white.

16.

duplicate genes, Pipi and P2P2, are involved.

Explain the F2 segregation into

PiPi P2P2 and pipi P2P2, were crossed.
a 9

:

6

:

1 ratio.

Assume that there are three pairs of noncumulative duplicate
genes, Aa, Bb, and Cc. The cross AA BB CC X aa bb cc was made and
17.

What ratio would be obtained in the F2?

the Fi selfed.
18.

In Nilsson-Ehle's wheat, what would be the phenotypes of the

following crosses?

19.

(a)

RiRi r2r2

X riri

{b)

RiRi r2r2

X RiRi r2r2

(c)

R\R\ r2r2

X R\r\ R2r2

(d)

RiTi R2r2

X riTi

(e)

RiTi R2R2 X RiTi r2r2

R2R2

r2r2

When Nilsson-Ehle crossed an RiRi R2R2 with an riVi r2r2 and

raised the F2 generation, he obtained a ratio of 1

4

:

6

:

:

4

:

1.

Compare

with the coefficients of the terms obtained by expanding the
6)"*.
binomial (a
Is there any possible connection here?

this ratio

+

20.

In Primula, what phenotypes would be obtained from the follow-

ing crosses?

21. In

(a)

fern

X oak

(d)

fern-oak X tongue

(b)

fern

X tongue

(e)

fern-tongue X oak

(c)

oak X tongue

(/)

oak-tongue X fern

Primula, what phenotypes are obtained from the following

crosses?

00 TT MpMp X YY ooTT mpmp

(a)

yij

(6)

Yy Oo Tt X Yy Oo Tt

(c)

Yy Oo tt X tjy 00 Tt

22. In

some strains of wheat, three

pairs of duplicate, cumulative,

The cross RiRi R2R2 R3R3

incompletely dominant genes are present.

X riTi r2r2 tsTz gave a ratio of 1

:

6

:

15

:

20

:

15

:

6

:

1.

If

a stands for

one degree of redness and b one degree of whiteness, so that the formula
a^6^ would mean a redder type than a^b'^, show that this same ratio can
be obtained by expanding the binomial (a -\- b)^.

Nemesia, orange, 0, is dominant over white, 0, nonbuff, Bu, is
dominant over buff, bu, and nonpale-upper, P, over pale-upper, p. Gene
23. In

Questions and Problems
is epistatic to both the

.

341

Buhu and Pp pairs of alleles. What are the results

of the following crosses?
(a)

Oo Buhu X oo bubu

(b)

00 Pp

(c)

X oo BuBu

(d)

oo bubu

X Oo pp

(e)

00 bubu X oo Bubu

Oo Pp X Oo Pp

(/)

Oo Pp X 00 PP

Chapter 22

QUANTITATIVE CHARACTERS
was shown in the last chapter that when two duplicate,
cumulative genes which lack dominance are interacting to proIt

duce a colored grain in wheat, the ordinary dihybrid ratio takes
on a different appearance. If, for example, a plant with very
deep red grains due to four genes for red is crossed with a white.grained type, the Fi will be intermediate because

it

contains

only two genes for red, and the F2 will segregate into a ratio of

1:4:6:4:1, with the intermediate type most numerous and
the extremes resembling the two parents, and considerably less
frequent.

The depth of color in each class depends upon the

presence of a certain number of positively acting genes, the sym-

which can be designated by capital letters. Since one
allele is not dominant over the other, the terms "dominant" and
"recessive" cannot accurately be used to describe these dupliAccording to this theory,
cate, cumulative, nondominant genes.
one gene adds something to the strength of the expression of
the character, whereas its allele neither adds nor subtracts from
bols of

that strength.

Therefore, we can designate the former type as a

contributing gene and the latter as a neutral gene, and we can

use capital letters for the contributing genes and lower-case let-

In Nilsson-Ehle's wheat, Ri and R2
would be contributing genes, and ri and r-z would be their neutral

ters for their neutral alleles.

The color depends entirely upon the number of conIf one of these
tributing genes possessed by a given plant.
alleles.

wheat plants has two such genes, it is intermediate in color,
and it matters not whether its genotype is R-Jli roro, riri R2R2,
or RiriR2r2', no other combination of genes would produce an
intermediate color.
If three pairs of duplicate, cumulative, nondominant genes are

interacting, the Fi will again be intermediate; but the ratio in

the F2 will become 1

:

6

:

15

:

20

:

15

:

6

:

1.

Out of 64 plants,

one will be as dark as the dark parent, one will be colorless,
342

The Theory of Polymery

343

resembling the light parent, and 20 will be intermediate.
of the 64 will be
still

Six

somewhat lighter than the darkest, 15 will be

lighter but not so light as the intermediate type, 15 will be

somewhat paler than the intermediates, and 6 will be still paler
but not colorless. When both three and two pairs of genes are
interacting the Fi

is

intermediate, but with three pairs there

are more classes in the F2 and the percentage of parental types
to be expected is smaller.

In each case, however, some parental

types are expected, but no plants deeper than the dark parent

nor paler than the light parent would be recovered in the Fo.

The Theory of Polymery
Duplicate, cumulative, nondominant genes might be

which determine other characters than color.

found

In fact, differences

and in many other
measurable characteristics in a number of plants and animals
have been explained by assuming the presence of a certain
number of such genes. Let us set up some hypothetical cases
and see how they might be explained on the basis of this scheme.
Let us assume that two plants differ in height by 24 cm. The
smaller is 30 cm tall and the larger 54. Let us assume, also,
that the difference in height is produced by four interacting,
cumulative, duplicate, nondominant genes, and that each conin gross size, in weight, in yield per acre,

tributing gene adds 6 cm to the height of the plant.

type of the smallest parent would be
represents 30

titi toto

The geno-

XX, where XX

cm common to both parents, whereas the larger

parent would be TiTi T2T2 XX.

This parent would have the

30 cm contributed by A"A^ and 6 cm for each of the four con-

and would be 54 cm tall. The Fi would be
Titi T2t2 XX, would have only two contributing genes in addition to the residual heredity indicated by XX, and would be 42
cm tall, exactly intermediate between the two parents. The F2
would segregate as in Fig. 96a. More F2 plants would be intermediate than would be found in any other class, the parental
types would be the least common, and no plants would be found
more extreme than either parent. Since all the Fi plants are
genotypically identical, different Fo families from selfing diftributing genes,

ferent Fi plants should theoretically all be alike.

If there is

any difference among them it should be due to the inability to
grow all the plants of a family that are theoretically possible

344

Quantitative Characters

or to different environmental conditions under which the families

are grown, or both.

In

all

such families fluctuating differences

that appear should be small.

F3 families from different F2

plants, however, might be very different.

The Fo from the above cross will segregate into 1 TiTi T2T2
2 TiTi T.to
1 ^1^1 T2T2

:

:

2 T^ti T2T2

2 ^1^1 T2t2

:

:

4 Tit^ T^to

1 ^1^1 ^2^2.

:

If

:

1 T^T^ ^.^.
2 T,ti toti
various Fo plants are
:

:

20 r-

Histograms showing the distribution in the F2 of plants of
from crosses involving four {a) and six (6) polygenes.
The Fi's would be respectively Tih Toto
and Tih Toto T2t2 XX, as
FiG. 96.

different heights

XX

explained in the text.

F3 families may be quite different because of these
differences in the genotypes.
For example, the 54-cm F2 plant
selfed, the

should breed true because it is homozygous for both loci for tall-

The 42-cm plants, however, may be TiTi ^0^2? ^1^1 T2T2,
or Titi Toti- The first two plants, when selfed, will produce F3

ness.

families, all the plants of

which are 42 cm tall, because these

plants are both homozygous, but the T^t^ ^2^2 Fo plant, although
it is

of the same height, will produce an F3 family consisting of

plants varying from 54 to 30 cm and segregating into exactly the

same ratio as is found in the F2.

Different F3 families from dif-

ferent F2 plants may differ considerably in the

amount of vari-

ability that they display, and two F3 families may be quite dif-

ferent even though they come from F2 plants that are phenotypically alike.

The Theory of Polymery

345

If six genes of this type were interacting to

the r2 would

into

fall

more

classes,

determine height,
but the same principles

would hold true. Let us suppose that the smaller plant is again
30 cm tall and the taller is 54 cm, but let us suppose that the
difference is caused by six interacting genes each of which contributes 4 cm to the height of the plant. The two parents would
be TiTi ^2^2 ^3^3
(54 cm) and U^t.t.UhXX (30 cm),
and the Fi would be T^t^ ^2^2 TshXX (42 cm). The contributions of the various Fi genes could be indicated as 4 +
-j- 4
+
+ 4 + + 30, which equals 42 cm. The F2 from any Fi plant
would fall into various classes, as in Fig. 966. As in the example involving four contributing genes, the intermediates are
more frequent in the F2 than the members of any other class,
parental types are recoverable, and no plants are to be expected
more extreme than either parent. Since F2 plants which are
phenotypically alike do not necessarily have the same genotypes,
the F3 families may differ from one another both in average size
and in variability, even though they have come from F2 plants
which are indistinguishable.

XX

In both these examples, the number of interacting genes is
Conceivably, any number might be interacting

relatively small.

in various situations.

If

we admit this possibility, we can de-

termine easily the number of expected classes in the F2 and the

frequency of each class for any given number of pairs of duplicate,

cumulative, nondominant genes merely by applying the

n equals the number of interacting genes
(and n/2 will therefore equal the number of loci), the F2 ratio
can be determined from the expansion of (a + b)'\ The coeffibinomial theorem.

If

cient of a given term of the expansion indicates the frequency of

the corresponding class of the F2, and the exponent of a indicates

number of contributing genes and therefore the strength of
the expression of the character of that class. The Fi is always
intermediate. The number of classes in the Fo is one greater
than the number of contributing genes, and the greater the numthe

ber of contributing genes, the smaller the relative frequency of
the class of intermediate
tributing

genes,

the

size.

The greater the number of con-

smaller the

parental type and, as they are in

relative
all

frequency of either

cases the classes of least

frequency, the smaller the chance of recovering either parental
type.

If two parents are of the same size in two or more crosses

Quantitative Characters

346

and if one is homozygous for contributing genes only, whereas the
other is homozygous for neutral genes, the more numerous the
contributing genes, the less each one contributes, the more numerous the classes between the two extremes, and the smaller the
difference between any two successive classes. If the contributing genes are very numerous, the difference between successive
classes may be smaller than the amount of variation which is
normally the result of environmental differences, and individuals
of one class

may overlap those of another.

Where these class

differences are so small, the variation in the F2 population seems
to be continuous.

interacting,

it

Where only four or six cumulative genes are

may be possible to classify the F2 individuals

into a few classes which are sufficiently distinct to admit of ready

separation, but when

more such genes are involved, the classes

usually run together.

Where there are a few distinct classes,

the variation is said to be discontinuous.

We have cited many examples of discontinuous variation
throughout this book. A few such characters are bullata and
normal leaves in the evening primrose; curved and normal wings
in Drosophila; red, white, and pink flowers in the four-o'clock;
crooked and normal fingers in human beings; and many other
characters that have been discussed in the chapters dealing with
the transmission of genes.

In all those examples, the individuals

can easily be classified as possessing one or the other character,

and such classification can be made by simple inspection, without resorting to any scale of measurements. When the variation
is continuous, however, an individual can be classified only after
a measurement is made, and he cannot be scored by simple
observation. Where the variation is discontinuous and measurements are not necessary for classification, the character is frequently said to be a qualitative character, whereas those characters that can be scored only by measurement because they vary
continuously are quantitative.

If the quantitative

are the result of numerous, duplicate, cumulative,
genes, such genes are frequently

characters

nondominant

known as polymeric genes or

multiple factors.

According to the theory of duplicate genes, a small number
of cumulative genes is interacting to produce a few discontinuous
classes.

The expansion of this theory into the theory of poly-

meric genes, in which many such duplicate genes are interacting

The Theory of Polymery

347

to produce a trait that shows continuous variation, is a fascinat-

ing speculation.

The important question, however, is whether

can actually be used at least as a working hypotheIt has been
sis to explain actual cases of continuous variation.

this theory

applied by a

number of investigators in the field of genetics to

many different characters in plants, human beings, and other
animals and, at least for some quantitative characters, seems to
be a reasonable working assumption even though, as some others
claim, it may not actually represent the facts.

Let us construct

TABLE 18
F2 Family from a Cross between a 54-cm Plant and a 30-cm Plant Which

Differ by Twelve Polymeric Genes
(Each contributing gene adds 2 cm to the height of the plant.)

Number of Con-

348

Quantitative Characters

family would be 42 cm, which
the two parents and
of the Fi plants.

is

is

exactly intermediate between

exactly the same as the average height

However, although the average height of the

Fi and F2 is the same, the variability would be very different in
the two generations.

All the variation to be found in the Fi

would theoretically be due to the environment and

is

usually

1000 r—

Fig. 97,

F2 from a

Frequency curve showing the distribution of the plants of the
cross in which the parents differed by twelve polygenes for

height.

not so great as that found in the F2.

The F2 would vary from

the extreme of one parent to the extreme of the other, and this
variation would be due largely to differences in genotype.

The

Fo generation can, perhaps, be understood better from a frequency curve, as in Fig. 97. In all three examples discussed in
this

chapter, the tw^o parents were the

same

height, but the

parents of each family differed from the parents of the other
families in the number of polymeric genes that were present.

In

each case, however, the size and variability of the Fi plants
were the same. In each example, the average height of all the

F2 plants was the same, but Figs. 96 and 97 show the great differences in frequencies of plants of different size.

The Theory of Polymery

349

Now that we have considered several theoretical cases of different degrees of complexity, let us study an actual example.

In
Dr.
E.
M.
1916,
East published some results of crosses between

two plants of the genus Nicotiana.

Among other characters that

he studied was length of the corolla tube.
for genetic studies

differences.

This character is good

because it is little affected by environmental

The flowers of N. Langsdorffii averaged about 21

mm in length whereas those of N. alata averaged about 82 mm.
As can be seen from Table
variability,

shows very

little

undoubtedly because of the almost universal

self-

fertilization of that species.

variable (Fig. 98).

19, Langsdorffii

The other species is somewhat more

Theoretically, the Fi should average about

51.5 mm, but actually the average corolla length of the Fi plants

was only 41 mm.

This discrepancy between theory and obser-

As is to be expected from the

vation has not been explained.

theory of polymeric genes, however, the variability in the Fi is
low.

The. average length in the F2

mm.

Again, this average

is

is

somewhat in excess of 38

considerably less than expected,

but the average of the F2 is practically the same as of the Fi,
an observation well in accord with the expectation according

The F2 shows far greater variability than the Fi
and in this respect agrees with the theory. Two of the F2 plants
are about as small as some of the Langsdorffii strain, but no
plants were as tall as the shortest plants of N. alata. If a large
number of genes were contributing to height, the 581 Fo plants
would probably not constitute a population large enough to en-

to hypothesis.

sure the recovery of parental types.

A study of various F3 families from this cross offers interesting
support for the explanation of corolla size based upon polymeric
genes.

Various F2 plants, when selfed, should produce F3 popu-

lations which differ markedly in their average length of corolla.
That this is true can readily be seen from Table 19. For ex-

ample, family 7 averages only 21

and 4 averages 54 mm.

mm whereas 3 averages 39 mm

This splitting up of the F3 into dif-

ferent lines with different average corolla lengths

features

is

one of the

demanded by the theory of polymeric genes.

Another

requirement of the hypothesis is that various F3 families should

show different amounts of variability, whether or not they average the same in size. We showed previously that this is to
be expected because some plants are heterozygous for a number

Quantitative Characters

350

I

QQ

o

O
o
;?

o

<1
P$

O

I?

P
a
H

es

CO

H
K
Eh

fa

^

O <

02

iz;

(£4

T—

The Theory of Polymery

351

and others are almost, if not entirely, homozygous, although they might be of the same size because they contain
the same number of contributing genes. In this study of corolla
length, families 1, 2, and 7 of the F3 generation show little
variability, family 3 shows a little more, and 4, 5, and 6 are
much more highly variable.
of loci

16 19 22 25 28 31 34 37 40 43 46 49 52 55 58 61 64 67 70 73 76 79 82 85 88 91 94 97 100

Fig. 98. Frequency curves for length of corolla tube in Nicotiana. Left,
N. Langsdorffii ; right, N. alata; center, the Fi and F2 from a cross between
these two species. Note that the means of the Fi and F2 are about the
same but that the Fo shows much greater variabiHty. (Redrawn from
East in Genetics.)

According to the theory of polymery, all the Fi plants should
be genetically alike and, therefore, all the F2 families should be
of the

same average size and should show the same amount of

variability.

In other words, smaller Fi individuals should not

produce an F2 population with any lower average
larger Fi individuals.
ilies,

size

than

To test this out. East raised five F2 fam-

each of which came from an Fi plant of different size.

found that the average

size

of all the F2

families

He

was very

and there was no correlation between the size of the Fi
plant and the average of the F2 family from it. All in all, this
cross between two plants of different length of corolla agrees
similar,

rather well with the theory of polymeric genes.

352

Quantitative Characters

In a further study of corolla length, H. H. Smith introduced

some modifications

of East's

methods.

He crossed Nicotiana

Langsdorffii with A^. Sanderae (Fig. 99) but used the geometric

mean between the length of the corolla tube and the length of

Fig. 99.
Measurements of corollas in Nicotiana Langsdorffii (left) and
N. Sanderae used by Smith in studies of corolla size. (Courtesy of Dr. H.
H. Smith in Genetics.)

the

maximum lobe for his measurements rather than just tube

length.

Furthermore, he found, as did East, that the variation

of the original species

was not comparable,

for Sanderae, the

species with the larger flowers, showed much greater variability

than the other species.
variability

He adjusted this initial difference in

by plotting the various values not on an ordinary

arithmetical scale but on a logarithmic scale to the base 10.
this technique, the picture of variability of the

By

two species was

Other Explanations

probably much

truer.

Smith expanded

353
his

study further to

include possible linkage relations between the various genes that

determine flower size and a number of genes that determine

Like East, Smith found that apparently a large
number of genes for flower size was involved and that they

flower color.

acted as duplicate, cumulative genes of comparable magnitude.
Some, if not all, of these polymeric genes were nondominant. Each
of the color genes was linked with some of the size genes, and
some of the size genes were linked with the self-sterility alleles.

This case appears to be explainable on the basis of the multiple
factor hypothesis, for all these cumulative genes seemed to
have about equal value in determining size, and there was no
gene that had any pronounced major effect.

Other Explanations
Although the multiple factor hypothesis (or theory of polymery) seems to be a very handy explanation for the inheritance
of quantitative characters,

it

has frequently been questioned by

geneticists on the grounds, largely, of its improbability.

Dupli-

cate genes in which two or three loci are operating are recog-

nized beyond any dispute, but most quantitative characters de-

mand

the simultaneous interaction

of

genes

at

considerably

larger numbers of loci, all of which genes are duplicates of each

The probability of the existence of so many duplicate

other.

genes in one organism has been questioned.

they must have arisen in some way.
as gene mutations,

If

they do

exist,

If they arose independently

we must assume

that the same mutation

arose a number of times at different places on different chromo-

somes.

If

they did not arise independently, their presence must

by assuming that a certain chromosomal
segment became incorporated a number of times into various
chromosomes by polyploidy and numerous translocations. For

be

accounted

for

Shull's duplicate genes for triangular capsule in Capsella,

it

has

been established that the species concerned are tetraploids and

have four instead of two genomes.

It is possible, therefore, that

each gene for capsule shape is present four times instead of two.
It

has been shown, also, that polyploidy exists in wheat and

might easily account for Nilsson-Ehle's cases of duplicate genes in that genus. For most quantitative characters, however, so many genes must be present that too high a polyploid

that

it

354

Quantitative Characters

number would have to be assumed, or the one particular segment
of a chromosome would have to have been incorporated by numerous translocations into almost every chromosome in the organism. Both situations are highly unlikely.
In Chapter 21 we mentioned that some genes exert a prominent effect but their exact expression

may be influenced in a

number of ways by modifying genes which would probably be
the gene whose character they modify were not
That such modifying genes might have an influence

undetected
present.

on

size

if

cannot be doubted.

It is possible, then, to explain at

least some quantitative characters by assuming not many polymeric genes of equal value but a number of genes no two of
which might produce the same effect. Three or four genes might

be present each of which would add considerably to size, but no

two would increase the size by the same amount. In addition, a
number of modifying genes might be present, some of which
would vary to a greater or lesser extent the size increment produced by different ones of the main size genes. Furthermore,
some genes might also be present which would not increase size
but would actually decrease it. The situation might be further
complicated by an interaction of the various genes such that two
together would produce a different result from that expected
merely by adding together the effects produced by both individually.
Although the theory of polymeric genes usually assumes that none of the genes is dominant over its allele, it is
quite probable that some of the "major" genes and some of the
modifying genes might show dominance, some might not, and
some might be incompletely dominant over their alleles. Such
a complicated interaction of dominant and nondominant genes
of different values is much less easy to analyze than the simpler
assumption of multiple factors.

An objection to the theory of many cumulative, polymeric
genes as the causative agents in size inheritance was raised

many years ago by Shull and Hagedoorn.

Shull classified the

genes that determine quantitative characters into duplicate and
plural determiners.

The duplicate genes are those which, when

separated from each other, produce characters so similar that

they cannot be distinguished from one another. They would
correspond to the polymeric genes or multiple factors often used
to account for quantitative characters.

The plural determiners.

Other Explanations

.

355

or genes, independently produce a given character or modify it
in

some way so as not to destroy its identity.

Plm^al genes in-

clude duplicate genes.

One of the real difficulties with the theory of polymeric genes
is that it treats a quantitative character as a unit when often it
is

a very complex phenomenon.

be treated as one thing,

Can plant height, for example,

when the height of a

plant depends

upon both the length of the internodes and their number? If
ten genes acted in such a way that each added one centimeter
to the length of each of five internodes, such genes would be
duplicate genes; and if their action was cumulative, and no
gene was dominant over its allele, we would have a typical case
The height of a plant, after the amount
of polymeric genes.
due to residual heredity was subtracted, would then be proportional to the number of genes present.
Although such a situation is abstractly possible and may be found in some plants,
It seems more likely
it seems unlikely to occur very often.
that one gene might add five centimeters to the lowest internode, a second increase each internode by one centimeter, and a
In
third increase the number of internodes from five to six.
addition, genes that increase or decrease the amount added by
the first two genes might also be present, as might a gene for
dwarfing that reduces the number of internodes from five to
Different degrees of dominance might be shown by difthree.
ferent genes. In other words, the second scheme, although more
complicated, may coincide more closely with other situations
we have in genetics.
Some interesting plural genes for body size in mice have
been described by Castle, who found that a majority of the common mutant genes in mice influence the size of the body, either
increasing or decreasing it. The gene for brown coat color (b)
is one of the genes that increases weight, body length, and tail
Interestingly, the gene for brown in rats
length (Table 20).
and rabbits also increases body size. As Castle says, ''It seems
probable, therefore, that in

mammals

generally production of

black pigment in the integument permits
In mice, the genes
greater growth in other body structures."
for dilution (d) and yellow (A^), which also affect pigmenta-

brown instead

tion, bring

of

about an increase in body size, but yellow can act

only in a heterozygous condition for it is lethal when homozy-

Quantitative Characters

356
gous.

Color genes, however, do not always increase size, for the

agouti and albino

(c)

genes apparently have no effect at

whereas the genes for pink-eye

(p)

and leaden

(In)

all,

retard

TABLE 20
Percentage Change in Body Size Effected by Certain Genes and
Combinations of Genes in Mice
(From Castle, 1941.)

Genes

Other Explanations

357

body parts. Is a large rabbit larger because he is larger
throughout his body or because certain parts only of his body
are larger?
Castle and Gregory, as the result of an embryological study, showed that generally rabbits of a large race grow
more rapidly throughout development, are larger at birth, and
continue to grow more rapidly and for a longer time after birth.
In such rabbits, therefore, greater growth is a general phenomenon throughout the body. On the other hand, there are also
special genes which increase the growth of special body parts,
such as length of hair, ear, and tail. Summing up, Wright concludes that the inheritance of body size is chiefly a general
phenomenon throughout the body but that groups of organs
(as legs of mammals or legs and wings of birds) and even individual organs themselves may vary in size independently of
general body size.
Castle's genes for body size are very different from the duplicate, cumulative, nondominant genes that have been described
for corolla length in tobacco and for other quantitative charspecial

They are not duplicates, they do not act cumulatively,
and they are not nondominant. Some act in a positive direction

acters.

and some in a negative direction, and they all differ in the
amount they increase or decrease the various elements of body
size.
Some quantitative characters such as body size in mice
Some quantitaare clearly not the result of polymeric genes.
tive characters such as Nilsson-Ehle's wheat appear to result
from polymeric genes. Most quantitative characters, however,
are not conclusively proved to result either from polymeric genes

For those
from some other type of plural determiners.
characters, the theory of multiple factors is very valuable, provided that it is recognized as a working hypothesis only and
or

that without further evidence it

is

not understood to be a true

The problem of quantitative characters
is a very important one, for many physical traits show continurepresentation of facts.

ous variation and almost

all

psychological traits are of that

nature.

Mather has concluded that quantitative characters are the
basis of differences between species.

oligogenic

and polygenic.

He divides characters into

Oligogenic characters are controlled

by only a few genes each of which has a large effect when compared with nonheritable fluctuation. Almost all the characters

358

Quantitative Characters

we have discussed in chapters previous to this one resulted from
oligogenes, and they include characters determined by single
genes or by the interaction of only a small number of genes
with large effects. Oligogenes determine characters that show
discontinuous variation. Polygenic characters are controlled by
the joint action of a large number of genes each of which has but
a small effect when compared with the total nonheritable fluctuation of the character, and hence show continuous variation.
Polygenes,

therefore,

include

duplicate,

cumulative, nondomi-

nant genes when the number of such genes

is

large enough so

that each has a small effect compared w^ith fluctuation.

They

have individual effects which are similar to one another and are
small, but they

may often show dominance and do not always

act strictly cumulatively.

genes

If there is

dominance, some dominant

may increase while others decrease the expression of the

character, and a symmetrical frequency distribution will result

from the presence of an equal number of both types of dominant
polygenes.
The interaction of polygenes is not always purely
additive.

Some polygenes interact so as to give a perfectly sym-

metrical frequency distribution if a certain type of scale is used
to plot the measurements, but a skewed curve if the type of scale
is

changed.

Apparently, however, polygenes

may

also

show

various types of epistasis with respect to one another.

Some Statistical Constants
In Table 19, the distribution of the plants in the Pi, Fi, F2, and

some F3 families is tabulated, and this is followed by three
columns headed ":r," ''<^," and "v.^' Since nothing has been said
as yet about the meaning of these terms the student will, perhaps,
wonder whether their presence has any significance. Most assuredly it has!
These expressions, known as statistical constants, are of great value in giving us a clear concept of the

family to which they refer and they enable us to compare at a
glance two or more families.

Another important characteristic

of these families is the number of plants that they contain.
size

of each family

is

listed in the last

column

The

in these tw^o

tables.

Although these statistical constants have been used in this
specific problem to describe families of plants, they are of very
wide application and are used in many fields of biology, psy-

Mean

359

chology, education, economics, and other branches of knowledge.

In one specific problem, each group of measurements represents
In general, such a group would be known as

a group of plants.

Thus each family would comprise a different popu-

a population.
lation.

If

we consider a population such as the Fi generation

from a cross between a plant of Nicotiana Langsdorffii and one
of N. alata, how many plants would be included in such a population? Theoretically, the number is infinite, and the Fi population which we have studied represents a small sample of this
theoretically infinite population.

The problem that interests us is how near to the true, abtheoretical

stract,

statistical

constants of the infinite popula-

tion are the constants of the sample.

An indication of this is

obtained by calculating either the standard error or the probable
error, either of w^hich values gives us a measure of the reliability

that can be placed in the constants of the sample as indications
of the true values of the corresponding constants of the infinite

population.

The probable error, the older of these two constants^

states that the corresponding constant

from another sample will

be expected to fall within certain limits in half the cases.

The

standard error states similarly that the corresponding constant

two
cases out of three. The probable error is perhaps slightly more
useful because it gives values for an even chance, but it involves
a multiplication by 0.6745 and for that reason is less used today
than it was twenty years ago. In Table 19, the values following
of another sample will fall within certain limits in about

the

sign are the probable errors of the various constants,

zb

as the standard error

was little used at the time East carried

out this work.

Mean
The arithmetical average, known in statistics as the mean or
arithmetic mean,

is

read x-bar or bar-a:.

frequently characterized by the symbol

x^

It is determined by adding together all the

individuals in a population and dividing the sum by the number
of individuals, usually designated

by the symbol n.

the Fi from Table 19 for an example.
sists of

Let us use

This Fi population con-

46 individuals, but we find that many of them have the

Four plants have corollas 37 mm long, and it is
simpler to multiply the 37 by 4 than it is to add 37 four times;

same

value.

360

Quantitative Characters

same in either case. Similarly, the
value 40 is multiplied by 24, and 43 is multiplied by 16. The
student 'may wonder why no plants are listed with corollas 35,
the results are exactly the

mm long.

Certainly, corolla length

not always found in units of 3 mm.

For purposes of handling

36, 38, 39, 41, 42, 44, or
is

45

customary to group our individual values
into classes.
Any fallacies that this might introduce are small
and are more than justified by the simplicity of this computation
method. When breaking up our array of figures into classes,
arbitrary class ranges must be chosen which must be the same
data, however,

for

all

it

classes.

is

East, for example, chose 3

mm as his class

For this Fi family, the classes were 33-35, 36-38, 39^1,
42-44, and 45-47. The values listed in Table 19 are the class
centers, and these are the values that are used in determining
range.

the statistical constants.

Obviously, the class center is just half-

way between the two extreme values of the class. To determine
the mean, each class value (V)

is

multiplied by the frequency

The sum, 2, of these products is divided by
the number of individuals. The formula for this is
of that class

(/).

_

X =

'^fV

n
and the actual calculation is worked out in Table 21. The student is further reminded that formulae should be understood
and not merely committed to memory.
Standard Deviation

The second column of constants in Table 19 represents the
standard deviation, which is usually designated by a lower-case

Greek sigma, o-.

The mean gives us a considerable amount of

information about a population and helps us to compare two
populations.

A glance at the means of the two Pi and the Fi

generations in Table 19 shows us that all three populations are

considerably different from one another.

The plants of Pi

(1)

have corollas only about 21 mm
las about four times as long, and the corollas of the Fi family
have an average length nearly intermediate between the other
long, those of Pi (2) have corol-

Such information is very helpful.
When we examine the means of the Fi and F2 populations,
we are led to believe that (so far as the average length of the

two.

Standard Deviation
corolla

is

361

concerned) these two populations are almost identical,

for the difference in the

means of the two populations is slight.

However, when we look at the distribution of the corolla lengths

TABLE 21

^

The Determination of Some Statistical Constants of the Corolla
Length of a Family of Fi Plants from the Cross Nicotiana Langsdorffii X N. alata

(Based on data from East in Genetics.)

362

Quantitative Characters

mm and the largest 46,
whereas the F2 plants range from 22 mm at one extreme to 64 at
est corolla length in the Fi

the other.

from the

is

34

is

The variation of a population cannot be determined
mean alone, and the best method of determining this

characteristic of a population

is

the standard deviation.

The method of calculating o- is slightly longer than that for
the mean.

Unless one class coincides with the mean, each class

deviates from it to a greater or lesser extent.

determined for each

class.

The deviation is

If it is adjusted for differences in

frequencies by multiplying each deviation by its frequency and

the values for

if

all

classes are

summated and if the sum is

divided by the number of individuals, a measure of variation

known as the average deviation is

arrived

at.

The standard

deviation is somewhat similar but is mathematically better.

It

consists of squaring the deviation of each class, of adjusting each

squared deviation for the frequency of the class, averaging these
values, and then extracting the square root of the average.

The

formula is

n
and the value for corolla lengths of the Fi is computed in Table
21.

When we observe both the mean and the standard deviation
and F2 populations, we have a much clearer understanding of their relationship than we possibly could from the
of our Fi

mean alone.

The standard deviation of the F2 is considerably
larger than the standard deviation of the Fi. AVhen we observed
the actual distribution of the two populations in Table 19, we
saw that the range of the F2 was much greater than the range of
the Fi, and we concluded that the Fo shows greater variability.
The standard deviation gives us the same information, is much
more reliable than the range, and is much more convenient than
a graphic representation of the distribution.

Furthermore, it is

an important constant in the derivation of some other constants.
In general, we can say that other things being equal, the larger
the standard deviation, the greater the variability.
Coefficient of Variability

At times it is desirable to compare the variability of two
things measured in different units. For example, we may wish

Standard and Probable Errors

363

to know whether the length of the corolla is more variable than

the area of the corolla or than the weight of the flower.

Since

the units of measurement are different, the standard deviation

The same is also true even if the units of

alone cannot be used.

measurement are the same, provided that the two means are
and the F2 plants have
standard deviations that are not far apart, but their means are
significantly different.

Plants Pi

considerably different.

Even in this case, the standard deviation

(2)

alone cannot be used to compare the two populations.

A con-

stant that can be used is the coefficient of variability, which is

nothing more than the ratio of the standard deviation to the

mean of the same population multiplied by 100 so' as to convert
the value of the coefficient of variability to the familiar basis of

percentage.

The symbol for this constant is v, and its formula is

V

=

100(7

X

The coefficient of variability of the F2 is much greater than that
of the plants of N. alata (Table 19).

Standard and Probable Errors

The standard and probable errors of a constant are important
indications of the reliability of that constant. They were discussed for ratios in Chapter 8 and now can be applied to data
showing continuous variation.
In the Fi from the Nicotiana cross, 46 plants were measured;

they averaged 40.78

mm in length of corolla.

These 46 plants

were drawn by chance from a population of infinite size. We
could, therefore, choose a great many other samples of 46 plants

from this same population of infinite size, and we could also
choose numerous samples containing more or fewer plants than
46.

If we did this, could we expect that the mean corolla length

would always be 40.78 mm? The answer is a decided no. If
we measured a number of Fi populations, we would obtain a
number of different means. If these means were then plotted in
the same manner that the original measurements were plotted,
we should see that the means would themselves form a frequency
curve which, like the other, had most of the means in the central
part of the curve and fewest at the ends.

Quantitative Characters

364

we could calculate the mean and
If we did, the standard
the standard deviation of the means.
deviation of the means would give us the standard error of the
If we then added the standard deviation
original population.
of the means to the mean of the original sample, and if we also
subtracted this standard error from the original mean, we should
have a range of values in which the mean of another sample of
After plotting these means,

similar size would fall in about two-thirds of the cases.

Except

as an exercise to check the method, there would be no necessity
for studying large
this

numbers of samples, and, indeed, sometimes

would be impossible.

The standard error of the mean of a

sample can be calculated from the formula

S.E.x

=

Vn

which merely says that the standard error of the mean equals

by the square root of the number of individuals in the population. The probable error is the

the standard deviation divided

same value multiplied by the constant 0.6745.
to the Fi of the Nicotiana cross.

Let us refer again

When the mean is written,

X = 40.78 zb 0.32, it means that if we took a large number of
other samples from this same Fi, the mean of these samples

would fall within the values 40.46 and 41.10 about two-thirds of
the time and would be less than 40.46 and greater than 41.10 in

about one-third.

If

the probable error

is

used, the

mean

is

written x = 40.78 rb 0.22, and the means of other samples would
fall

within the values 40.56 and 41.00 in half the cases.

ously, the greater

is

Obvi-

either the standard error or the probable

error of a given constant, the less reliable

is

that constant.

It

matters not whether the standard error or the probable error is
used, provided that the one used is clearly indicated.

Formulae for both the standard error and the probable error
of the standard deviation and for the standard error and the
probable error of the coefficient of variability and the calculations for these errors in the Fi population are given in Table 21.

Questions and Problems

365

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
What character was used by Lang to illustrate his theory of polyDoes
meric genes? How many loci did he consider were involved?
1.

Davenport's theory of the same character
loci?
2.

differ as to the

number of

Explain.

When these two

Plant A is 20 cm tall and plant B is 70 cm tall.

are crossed, the Fi is 45 cm tall.

If the

Fi plants are selfed and a very

F2 population is raised, what would be the expected size of the
smallest plant, of the largest plant, and of the plants of greatest frelarge

quency ?

cm difference in the last problem is
What are the genotypes
of the two parents and of the Fi? What are the phenotypes and geno3.

Let us suppose that the 50

the result of ten polymeric genes at five loci.

types of the F2?
4.

Select various

F2 plants.

Show how the mean and variability of

What proportion of the F2 plants

the F3 families from them compare.

would breed true?
seedsman had the plants mentioned in question 2, how could
he establish races that were 20, 40, 45, 55, and 70 cm tall?
5.

If a

6.

The following data were obtained by Emerson and East for lengths

of ears in maize.

Explain.

Calculate all constants and their probable

See Research Bulletin 2 of the Nebraska Agricultural Experi-

errors.

ment Station.

Class Centers in Centimeters

Parent
Class

Pi (1)

7

8

4 21 24

8

5

6

9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21

3 11 12 15 26 15 10

7

2

9 5 4 3 3 1
8 18 14 26 24 28 12 10
2 2
5 13 10 18 18 11

4

Pi (2)
1

1

4

12 12 14 17

7.

1

9

1

3 13 13 18 23
1

10

4

10 19 26 47 73 68 68 39 25 15
6

F3 (lES)

9

8

9 10

14 15 24 10

2

2

1

Egg production in fowls is a quantitative character.

Hays has

found that it differs in stocks that possess or lack certain other characters as follows (data from Hays in Poultry Science)

:

Quantitative Characters

366

No.
of

Birds

Chapter 23

INBREEDING, SELECTION, AND HETEROSIS
Inbreeding

When offspring are produced from closely related parents, we
say that they are produced by inbreeding. The degree of inbreeding may vary considerably in different organisms and will

depend in part upon the method of reproduction in the species
in question.
Many plants and some animals reproduce entirely
It results in the most extreme
or largely by self-fertilization.
degree of inbreeding.
In normally cross-fertilized organisms,
reproduction may be carried out by father-daughter and motherson crosses, by sib crosses, by crosses between uncle and niece,
or aunt and nephew, or first cousins, or by crosses between more
distant cousins. All such matings are considered as inbreeding,
but the closer the relationship between the two parents, the
greater is the degree of inbreeding. When two unrelated persons
are mated, the degree of inbreeding is zero; the offspring arise
by outbreeding and the cross is an outcross.
The results of inbreeding have been under discussion for many
years as the effect upon the organism often seems to be very
deleterious.
One of the best examples of this is maize, a plant
that is normally cross-fertilized. When a vigorous, highly productive strain is repeatedly inbred by self-fertilization, there is
a decline in quality, vigor, and yield for several generations;
after about half a dozen generations the resulting strains are
so inferior that no farmer would consider planting them (Fig.
100 >. Similar harmful effects noted in other organisms have led
to the rather popular belief that rapid deterioration is inevitable
if a strain is closely inbred.
Because of this belief and because
close breeding among human beings has sometimes produced
very unfortunate

results, it is generally considered undesirable

for first cousins to

marry.

Why is inbreeding often harmful, and is it always harmful?
First, we must understand that there is nothing mysterious about

367

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

368

inbreeding and that a harmful result, when it occurs, is not
caused by some mysterious force that produces weaknesses in
some undefined way. Second, there are organisms in which in-

breeding is not harmful and also organisms in which it appears to

/^.'

«f Row* >

on BMrs j

Inbreeding

369

and able rulers, but regularly adhered to a custom of

of wise

The marriage of Charles Darwin
to his first cousin, Emma Wedgwood, produced offspring that
were well above the average. If inbreeding is not always harmful, what is its effect?
The effects of inbreeding were effectively demonstrated and
stated by the Danish geneticist, Johannsen, in 1903. He chose
a commercial variety of the common garden bean, known as the
brother-and-sister marriages.

Princess Bean, for studies of the effect of selection on weight of

Taking a sample from a mixed lot of beans of different sizes, he showed that the progenies of the heavier beans
in general weigh more than those of the lighter beans, and that
not all the seeds of the same size produce offspring of the same
average weight. He also compared the average weight and the
variability of offspring of individual mother plants and found
that the progeny of each particular plant showed much less
variability than the whole group with which he started. He then
the seed.

self-fertilized these strains for several generations, being espe-

cially careful to prevent

one line from becoming crossed with

another.

The

results

of

several successive

generations of inbreeding

from different original mother plants (of which he happened to
use nineteen) showed that each of these different inbred lines
had a certain average weight and that this value was essentially
the same for each generation of any given line. For example,
the line with the smallest seed weight had an average of about
35 eg, a value essentially the same for all generations that were
produced by self-fertilization within that line. Another line had
a seed-weight average of about 64 eg, and this weight was maintained for all generations that were produced by self-fertilization of any seed in the line.

weight of the seeds of

When we point out that the average

any generation in one of the lines has a

we do not mean that there was no variation in
that group of plants for, of course, there was. The interesting
certain value,

feature of this variation, however, is that it is not inherited.

For

example, the average seed weight of line 2 of the original nineteen lines was 55.8 eg, and yet beans were found which weighed
as little as 40 eg or as much as 70.

To ,test the efficacy of selec-

tion within this particular inbred line, progeny were obtained

from the self-fertilization of plants of that

line

which weighed

370

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

and 70 eg respectively. The seed-weight average of
the offspring from these four plants was, respectively, 57.2, 54.9,
56.6, and 55.5 eg, a series of values which show clearly that selec40, 50, 60,

tion of the larger or smaller seeds of this inbred line has abso-

The average weight varies little in all the progenies, and what little
lutely no effect on the average weight of the progeny.

variation there is in the average bears no relation to the weight
of the mother, for the heaviest average of these four progenies

came from the lightest seed.
Within inbred lines, the variation that is present is not inherited; it must be the result of environment. Johannsen tested
this out further by continuous breeding for half a dozen years
from both the largest and smallest types within an inbred line.
Six years of selection in both directions failed to produce any
significant difference in seed weight.

The largest seeds of the original lot produced progenies with
a much higher seed-weight average than progenies of the smalland small seeds produced progenies
of the same average weight when they were from the same inbred
line.
The reason is clear, for the original lot of seeds was a
heterogeneous mixture which had undoubtedly come from a
number of different parents with very different genotypes and
which showed variation that was both genie and environmental.
Within any given inbred line, however, all the plants had the
same genotypes, and therefore any inbred progeny showed only
environmental variation. The bean normally reproduces by selffertilization and most plants are homozygous.
A homozygote
will produce a progeny that consists of only homozygous plants
(barring infrequent mutations) which are genetically all alike
and are like their parent.
If two homozygous plants which differ by a number of genes

est seeds but both the large

are crossed, the Fi plants will be heterozygous for many genes

and will show only environmental variation. Various Fi plants
upon self-fertilization will produce Fo families which will be
much more variable than the Fi, but will have about the same
mean as the Fi. If various F2 plants are self-fertilized, and if
subsequent generations are also produced by self-fertilization,
different strains will separate out which may differ from one an-

other in their means, will show

much less variability than the

Fo, will after a few generations establish a fixed value for each

Inbreeding
strain that

371

may differ for the various strains, and after a few

generations will show only as

much A'ariation as might be ex-

These strains are homozygous and, since they are homozygous, they reach a fixed value,
or as we generally say, they breed true. Because they are homozygous they show no genetic variation.
A true-breeding homozygous strain is called a pure line, which
may be defined as the progeny produced solely by self-fertilizaBecause each
tions from an original homozygous individual.
pure line consists of only homozygous plants, the offspring from
pected as the result of fluctuations.

large,

intermediate, or small variants will

all

show the same

average size and the same amount of variation.

Johannsen's

study of pure lines in beans showed that within the pure

line

selection has no effect in producing any change in the character,

found within a pure line except for occasional mutations is environmental. When a mutation occurs in
for the only variation

a "pure line," the line does not become less pure, since no out-

The individuals of such a pure line are
homogeneous genotypically, however, as they now

cross has taken place.

no longer

consist of both the

mutated and unmutated biotypes.

It

might

be mentioned here that in Johannsen's terminology "pure lines"

and "biotypes" are not synonymous terms.

A biotype may be

heterozygous, such as the pink-flowered type of four-o'clock and
the blue Andalusian type of the domestic fowl.

In a hypothetical problem in the last chapter, we assumed the
presence of three pairs of duplicate, cumulative, nondominant
genes (although exactly the same actual results could be attained

with dominant genes, some of which act in a plus direction and
others in a minus direction).

Self-fertilization for several gen-

homozygous lines which
were both larger and smaller than the Fi. The larger lines resulted from the homozygous condition of some of the contributing genes; the smaller lines had many of the neutral alleles in
homozygous condition. If the Fi were therefore heterozygous for
a number of dominant genes, the subsequent generations would
differ from it phenotypically only to the extent that they were
homozygous for some of the recessive alleles. Homozygous
dominant lines would segregate out, to be sure, but because of
dominance, a line homozygous for all the dominants would be
phenotypically the same as one that was heterozygous. The two
erations resulted in the segregation of

372

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

lines

would differ only in the type of progeny they produce.

there
to

is

If

dominance, then, the important effect of inbreeding

segregate

is

out homozygous recessives.

homozygous lines which will segregate out
from inbreeding depends upon the number of genes for which

The number

of

TABLE 22
Homozygous Lines That Separate Out from Inbreeding from an
Organism Heterozygous for Different Numbers of Pairs
OF Genes

Inbreeding

Apparently the

same as

373

human beings is the
If in a human family there are

effect of inbreeding in

in other organisms.

several recessive genes for serious defects

and if they are nor-

mally not expressed because of dominant genes, brother-andsister or even first-cousin marriages will tend to produce children that are homozygous for some of these serious recessive defects.
if

In those families, inbreeding will be highly undesirable

not tragic.

If,

however, the recessives in a certain family

produce a more desirable result than their dominant alleles, inbreeding will not only not be harmful but will also produce a

more

beneficial

result

than outcrossing.
Unfortunately, most
some very harmful rather than only

families probably possess

desirable recessive genes so that in general inbreeding should

not be encouraged.

One of the most extensive studies of the effect of inbreeding
in animals was carried on over twenty years ago by Wright.
About 34,000 animals were studied over a period of 15 years.
They include 25,000 animals in 23 separate lines, each of which
was descended from an original pair of guinea pigs by brotherand-sister matings. They also include about 4000 animals in a
control stock in which inbreeding was very carefully avoided
and about 5000 animals in crosses among the various inbred lines.
The results of this inbreeding showed no obvious degeneration
but did indicate an average decline in vigor in all characteristics.

This decline was most marked in the frequency and size of litter.

The decline, also, was greater in the gains made after birth than
weight at birth and was also greater in the percentage of
animals raised than in the percentage born alive. There was a

in the

and in resistance to tuberculosis, but there
was no effect on the sex ratio. Dr. Wright concluded that loss in
vigor, especially in fertility, is a more or less direct consequence
decline in fertility

of close inbreeding.

Other interesting results also came to light in this study.

The

segregation of new color types and patterns appeared, and dif-

and subfamilies became true-breeding for difSome subfamilies bred true for a
ferent colors and patterns.
tendency toward a reappearance of an ancestral fourth toe on
ferent families

the hind feet, but relatively few monstrosities appeared.

In

some families, eyeless individuals or those with rudimentary legs
were found, but there was no connection between the tendency

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

374

of a family to produce a given type of monstrosity and a decline
in vigor.

The isolation of biotypes showed that apparently there

was no inheritance of general vigor, for in many families there
was extreme vigor in certain respects and extreme weakness in
others, and there were those in which all kinds of vigor and all
kinds of weakness were combined.

This study illustrates clearly

that one of the most important results of inbreeding is the bring-

Very similar
results have been reported for various herbage grasses by Nilsson,
ing to light and fixing of characters in a family.

who emphasizes that all the effects of inbreeding may be explained by the segregation of genes.

Inbreeding does not create

anything new but merely (and very effectively) sorts out what

was already present and fixes it.
In Chapter 4 we pointed out that some of the higher plants
are capable of reproduction from vegetative organs.

If vegeta-

tive reproduction occurs in this manner for a number of genera-

tions

from one original plant, all the various plants will be di-

rect asexual descendants of the original plants or,

speaking, will be pieces of that original plant.

viduals form a clone.

Since

all

more strictly

All these indi-

the individuals of a clone are

really pieces of one plant, they will be genotypically alike ex-

cept for somatic mutations.

Being alike genetically and being

the lineal descendants of one original plant, they resemble the

pure lines that segregate out by successive self-fertilizations

among the descendants of one original homozygous plant.

They

from such pure lines, however, in two fundamental ways.
First, the various plants of a sexually produced pure line are
genotypically identical except for mutations and are homozydiffer

gous.

The members of a clone are also genotypically identical

except for mutations, but they may or may not be homozygous
and, unless the original individual of this clone was homozygous,
are not homozygous.

Second, repeated self-fertilizations from

a heterozygous plant result in the establishment of a number of
different pure lines,

but only one clone is produced by repeated

vegetative reproduction from one original heterozygous plant,

apart from somatic mutations.
Selection

Let us carry our hypothetical problem in plant heights a little
further.
Let us suppose that we had two strains whose geno-

375

Selection

types were T^Ti T2T2 tsts and tih tot-i T^T^. The plants of the
first strain averaged 46 cm in height; those of the second were

38 cm tall on the average.
therefore showed

little

Both strains were homozygous and

variation.

Let us simplify our problem

by assuming that there is no variation due to
the environment. If plants of these two strains are crossed, the
Fi would all be 42 cm tall and would all have the genotype
further, however,

When various Fi plants are selfed, F2 generations would be produced which in theory should average 42 cm
and should range from 54 cm at the one extreme to 30 at the
Tih ^2^2 ^3^3.

Let us assume, however, that because of lack of space

other.

or other limitation our Fo

was not sufficiently large to include

plants as tall or as short as

is

theoretically possible.

We did,

however, have some 50-cm and some 34-cm plants, both of

which types were more extreme than either parent. Having
obtained this F2, we are not satisfied, but would like to build up
as tall a race and also as dwarf a race as we can.
In order to obtain a tall strain, we self-fertilize some of the
50-cm plants. They are all T^h ToTo T^Ts, T^T^ T-.to^ TsTs, or

TiTi T2T2 Tsts.
tall

:

3'2

50

All three types will segregate into

cm tall

:

^ 46 cm tall.

So

far,

we have built up

our strain from 46 to 54 cm in three generations.
our success,
those.

^ 54 cm

Pleased with

we then select the 54-cm plants and self-fertilize

To our dismay, however, their offspring are all only 54

cm tall. We then self-fertilize these, but again our offspring are
After several more attempts we are forced
we cannot increase our height beyond 54 cm.

no taller than 54 cm.
to conclude that

We then turn to our smaller plants to attempt to create a
dwarf strain.

Our smallest F2 plant is 24 cm tall and has one

of the following genotypes: ^1^1 ^2^2 ^^3^3, ^1^1 ^2^2 ^3^3, or Titi ^2^2
^3^3.

When one of these is selfed, we get F3 plants that are 38

cm tall (homozygous for one of the contributing genes), those
that are 34 cm tall (heterozygous for one locus), and some that
are 30 cm tall (^1^1 ^2^2 ^3^3). The last plants are shorte;r than
anything we encountered in any previous generation. When we
them, however, we find that they have apparently
reached their minimum size, for they produce nothing smaller
self-fertilize

in

any subsequent generation.

In attempting to create a giant strain and a dwarf strain, we
systematically chose the tallest plants in each generation as the

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

376

parents of the next generation in the one case, and the smallest
plants in each generation in the other.

Such a regular choice,

year after year, of a plant of a certain type as the parent of the
next generation is known as selection. It is probably the oldest

method of plant and animal breeding and is certainly a very
important one. In some of our generations above, selection was
an important factor in increasing or decreasing the height of our
Why is there this
plant, but in other generations it was not.
difference? When we study the genotypes of these two groups
of plants,

we find that the plants that were not effective in

whereas those that were effective
were heterozygous for at least one locus. It is a w^ell-established
rule, specifically established by Johannsen in 1903, that when
we are dealing with homozygotes we can not vary our strain
selection w^ere homozygotes,

by selection.
In discussing the previous case, we simplified our problem by
all the variation was hereditary.
in an actual experiment, although
would
not
be
so
Obviously,
the extent to which variation is the result of environmental

the implied assumption that
it

factors will differ with the organism, the particular part of the

Even though we
attempt to eliminate the effect of environment by raising all the
organism, and the nature of the environment.

plants or animals of a given experiment under essentially the

same

conditions,

we can never

control external conditions so

rigidly that their effects cannot be noticed at least to a small
extent.

Environment may sometimes have such a large

effect

that

organisms of one genotype may appear phenotypically like those
of a class larger or of a class smaller.

Thus the action of en-

vironment on quantitative characters

may result in the over-

lapping of phenotypes.

In our hypothetical problem, some T^t^

T2T2 T3T3 plants which should be theoretically 50 cm tall might
grow in such rich, moist soil that they would attain a height of
53 or 54 cm. On the other hand, some T^Ti T2T2 T^Ts plants
might grow in such an unfavorable location that they would be
only 51 or 52 cm. Because of environmental differences, these
two groups of plants would be confused with plants of different
In trying to establish a giant strain, we should
probably choose the 53- or 54-cm plant as the parent of the next
genotypes.

generation because of its large size, but we would find that its

377

Selection

would on the average be smaller than the offspring
from the 51- or 52-cm plant. Offspring of a 54-cm plant which
was homozygous for all six contributing genes would be identical
with those produced by the 51-cm plant but not with those
from the 54-cm plant, which was merely an extreme variant of
offspring

the next lower class.

To be successful, selection must be based on the genotype.
two plants have the same genotype but differ because of
environmental conditions, it makes no difference whether the
If

larger or the smaller plant

each will have the same

is

used for seed, for the offspring of

mean and standard deviation

(within

A small variant from a plant with more

the limits of error).

contributing genes will, however, be a better choice for a parent

than a large variant from one with fewer contributing genes.
Selection acts only on genotypical differences and not on fluc-

Environmental variants are of no value in breeding.

tuations.

we repeatedly selected for reproduction the seeds of single plants, and we always kept the
In our hypothetical problem,

offspring from one plant separated from those of other plants.

This method is known as line selection.
used

mass selection.

is

Another method often

Either method may be based upon the

nature of the father, the mother, or both parents.

In our prob-

lem, also, we chose the plants to be used for further reproduction

according to the nature of their phenotypes.

Other methods

are selection according to the nature of the ancestors of the

plants used for breeding and selection

upon the basis

of the

phenotypes of their offspring, a method known as "progeny selection or the progeny test.

Mass

probably the oldest method of selecting
parents.
By this method, a farmer will go through his field
and pick a number of his best plants for seed. His selection
may be based upon phenotype, pedigree, or performance but
selection

is

probably in the earlier selections was based entirely on phenotype.

If the plant is normally self-pollinated, selection will take

both parents into account; but if it is normally cross-pollinated,
the male parent will frequently be disregarded and only the

quality of the

female considered.

The

plants.

is

made

to

of

the

various

sown together, and no
keep separate the seeds from individual

plants chosen for reproduction are then

attempt

seeds

Inbreeding , Selection, and Heterosis

378

This method has been used in a number of plants and has
produced some very valuable results. For years it was the
only method of improving maize by breeding and was probably
practiced by corn growers

a few years ago, when

from the

earliest

times until just

was largely replaced by the method
of hybrid corn.
One of the most active periods of selection in
maize was about one hundred years ago, and some of the corn
breeders of that era were masters at mass selection, which is
probably more of an art than a science. It has been suggested
that when mass selection is based both upon the phenotypic
quality of the plants used for seed and upon the performance
of the offspring, it is perhaps the best method of maintaining
it

the yield of varieties adapted to a given region in a cross-pol-

Mass selection has been known as
"German method of broad breeding" because it was widely used at one time in Germany for
linated plant such as maize.

the ^'German method" or the

improving sugar beets and small grains such as rye and wheat.
Line selection in a plant that normally is self-pollinated results in the isolation of pure lines or

rapidly than any other method.

homozygous biotypes more

In an animal or in a plant that

normally cross-pollinated the result is slower, but it can be
produced by a suitable selection of male and female parents.
In many selection experiments, however, the female parent only
was considered and no attention was paid to the male. This

is

method, known as maternal-line selection, has produced some
very striking results in some experiments.
One of the first maternal-line selection experiments was instituted by C. G. Hopkins a number of years ago at the Illinois
Agricultural Experiment Station.

low

oil

Selection

was

for high

and

content and for high and low protein content in the

East points out that this work illustrates the
"rapidity with which progress can be made by selecting only
from the maternal side, even in the face of constant intercrossing."
The work was started in 1896 from a very old type.

kernels of maize.

Burr's White.

The method of selecting seed was known as the

ear-to-row method.

Some

from an ear are planted in one row,
determined for the plants of that row. A

of the kernels

and the yield is later

number of rows are grown, each of which has come from part
of a different ear.

Either seed

is

selected for the next year's

Selection

379

crop from the most productive rows, or the remaining kernels
of the ears that

following year.
years.

produced the most desirable rows are sown the
This procedure is repeated over a period of

In these experiments, the desirable types were deter-

mined by chemical analyses of some of the fruits of certain ears^
and the remaining fruits of the extreme ears were planted.
Curves of oil and protein content show that great progress is

made during the first year, that after a few years progress becomes slower, and that finally a horizontal line results showing
that after a w^iile no further progress is made. After ten generations the average crop of the high protein line had 14.26 per
cent protein and of the low line 8.64 per cent.
The original
line was slightly under 11 per cent, which shows that considerable progress was made in selecting in each direction. After
the first ten years, however, practically no further gain was
made even when selection was continued as before.
Results were slightly different when selecting for oil. Starting
w^ith a strain that showed about 4.6 per cent oil, the low oil
strain reached 2.66 per cent after ten generations, declined to

about 2 per cent after seventeen generations, and thereafter
remained essentially at that level. The high oil strain reached
7.37 per cent after ten generations, was close to 8 at the seven-

teenth generation, and continued to increase slightly after that.
East's explanation for the results obtained in this selection

experiment assumes the original stock was a mixed race con-

number of different biotypes which were rapidly isolated by selection.
After this isolation was complete, which
came about when the strains became essentially homozygous,
selection accomplished nothing.
The ear-to-row method of
breeding appeared to be a very excellent method when it was
taining a

introduced, but

it

has very decided limitations.

M. T. Jenkins

1936 Yearbook of Agriculture, for example, points out
that it has been effective over a period of a few years in increasin the

ing the yield of plants that are relatively unselected to begin

with but that there was no evidence that this method had any

cumulative effect.

An interesting development of the maternal-line method was
reported

for

alfalfa

Alberta in Canada.
cycles.

by Fryer in 1939 at the University of
This method involves the use of four-year

During the first year about 80 progenies containing ap-

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

380

proximately 50 plants

in

each are grown in rows, one progeny

The plants are so spaced that each has equal and
growing
During the second year the plants are
ample
space.
allowed to set seed and about the middle of August are scored

to a row.

for seed-setting capacity.

The method of scoring is by means

to 5, based on the density of the
an arbitrary" scale from
and those in which the pods are
pods. A plant with no pods is
various intermediate condiwhereas
the
crowded
are
densely
5,
tions are 1, 2, 3, and 4. In this second year any decidedly poor
plants or progenies are removed from the field.
During the third year of the cycle, all the plants that were
not discarded during the second year are again scored for denof

sity of pods.

The scores of the second and third years are then

combined, and all the plants are removed from the field except
about 100 of the best plants. In the fourth year all plants
except about 80 of the best may be removed.

These 80 plants are
Since such seed is produced
allowed to set seed in the field.
pollination,
it. comes from intercrossing
under conditions of open
among the highly selected plants which are, of course, isolated
from all other stands of alfalfa. The seed is harvested at the
end of the summer and used to establish 80 new progenies, one
from each plant, in a new four-year cycle the following year.
The results of this method have been highly successful. In a
three-year test at Edmonton, a stock which had been selected by
this method for ten years was compared with three ordinary,
unimproved varieties and one selfed line. As Table 23 shows,
the strain that was improved by maternal-line selection was
decidedly better than any of the other four varieties in seed
production.
This high seed production w^as not procured at
the expense of hay-yielding ability, for the average annual
yields for all five types were nearly the same.

A good example of the use of the phenotype as a criterion for
selecting individuals for reproduction

industry.

is

afforded by the poultry

When breeding for egg production, the number of eggs

a hen produces

is

the phenotype of that hen.

It

seems to be

common among poultrymen to consider that the breeding value
of a hen can be determined

by the number of eggs she lays

during her first laying year and to assume that a hen will be a

good breeder if she lays 200 or more eggs during that first year.
AVhen actual experiments were carried out by testing the egg

Selection

381

production of daughters from hens that had a good first-j^ear
record, it was frequently observed that the daughters were less
productive, although in some tests the higher the first-year rec-

ord of a hen, the better the egg production of her daughters.

The use of pedigrees has been practiced as the basis for selection in some animals. It is a very ancient method; perhaps the
oldest pedigree records are the ancient records kept by the Arabs

TABLE 23
Distribution of Alfalfa Plants for Pod Setting, in Per Cent
(Modified from Fryer.)

382

Inbreeding Selection, and Heterosis
,

can be attached to individual records of egg production of anThis latter point is also
cestors beyond the third generation.
maintained by Steele, who suggests that for race horses and
saddle horses individuals beyond the third generation may be
ignored for all practical purposes. Even though pedigree records for horses are among the oldest and most elaborate, Steele
considers that there

is

insufficient

genetic significance for the

current use of lengthy pedigrees.

Probably the best criterion yet devised for determining the
breeding value of a plant or animal is the progeny test. By this

method the individuals selected for breeding are not those that
necessarily appear the best or have the best ancestors, but those

that produce the most desirable offspring. For example, when
breeding for high egg production the hens selected for carrying

on the line are not those which produce the most eggs or those
whose ancestors produce the most eggs, but those whose daughWhen selecting in plants, seeds are
ters have the best records.
obtained from a number of individuals. A portion of each lot
If
of seeds is sown, and the offspring are raised and classified.
the offspring from one or more test portions of seeds is superior
to those from others, the remaining seeds from the plants that

produced this superior test portion are then sown to produce the
The progeny test has been widely used in
next generation.
a number of organisms, and in poultry some very valuable
results have been obtained by Hays at the Massachusetts Agricultural Experiment Station.

Although the individual that is used to start a breeding program based on selection and inbreeding is frequently a heterozygous representative of a certain species or variety, he very often
a hybrid produced by crossing together two species or varieties
that differ in a number of traits. Being a hybrid, he would oris

For
be heterozygous for a large number of genes.
example, crosses have been made between the usual breeds of
cattle raised in this country and strains that are used in very
dinarily

hot chmates, such as the Brahman cattle of India and the Africander cattle of South Africa. The purpose is to select strains
which segregate out that possess the good beef quality of the

more usual

strains

and the

ability

to

thrive

in

the

warmer

regions of the United States.

Yarnell and Hawthorn obtained some interesting results from

Selection

383

between two varieties of tomatoes.
The ordinary commercial varieties do not produce well with
the advance of the summer season of Texas, but a local variety
(Cherry) maintains both its size and its productivity during the
selection following a cross

TABLE 24
Fruit Weight and Yield per Plant in Selections from a Cross between
THE Large-Fruited Tomato, Bonny Best, and the Small-Fruited,
Heat-Resistant Tomato, Cherry, at Winter Haven, Texas

(From Yarnell and Hawthorn

in

Proceedings of the American Society for

Horticultural Science.)

384

Inbreeding Selection, and Heterosis
,

a ready sale on the local markets during a

period in which

normal-sized tomatoes had to be imported.
Heterosis

The sorting out

of genotypically different

homozygous

lines

up an interesting question.
What will be the result if these homozygous lines are crossed
together? We have had the answer to that since G. H. Shull's
report in 1908 showing that what may appear to be a uniform
variety of maize is really a series of very complex hybrids inas the result of inbreeding opens

volving a number of distinct biotypes.

He pointed out, as we

have discussed under inbreeding, that these biotypes can be isolated by continued self-fertilization and that if they are crossed
together after isolation the hybrids have much greater vigor
and strength than the inbred lines. He showed also that one or
two of them even exceeded the original hybrid combinations that
comprised the maize field, thus indicating that the way to maximum yields with respect to any desired characteristic was to find
The vigor of
the right pair of inbreds and repeat the cross.
certain hybrids had been recognized for at least two hundred
years before that, but it was the work of Shull that clarified the

phenomenon. To this vigor of the hybrids the terms hybrid
vigor and heterosis have been applied. The vigor manifests itself differently in the numerous plants and animals in which it
has been recorded, but it frequently is revealed in some form as
greater plant height, greater size and weight of the fruit, greater
yield per acre, greater length of ear, number of rows, and number of kernels per row in maize, more internodes per plant, and
greater gross weight.
The difference between inbred lines and
This
the hybrids can be readily appreciated from Fig. 100.
vigor, however, is not maintained at the same high level unless
provision is made to repeat the same effective heterozygous genotype, and this repetition can be achieved only by maintaining
the purebreds and repeating the cross between them each year
or by some vegetative method of reproduction.

The cause

of the greater vigor in the hybrids has puzzled

geneticists for a

number of years.

Several theories have been

suggested and various modifications and extensions of some of
these theories have been offered, but no explanation yet pro-

posed is entirely satisfactory.

It is, of course, possible that sev-

385

Heterosis

eral mechanisms operate in different species or even in the same

organism, each of them producing a greater vigor in hybrids

between inbred hnes than in the inbreds, themselves, or in the
original stock from which the inbred lines were produced.
One of the widely advocated theories maintains that the vigor
Conof hybrids is the result of their state of heterozygosity.
tinued inbreeding develops strains which are highly homozygous,
but the different inbred lines may be homozygous for different
genes. When they are crossed, the hybrid is much more heteroee X ««
zygous than either line. Thus the cross AA bb cc
BB CC dd EE would produce a hybrid Aa Bb Cc Dd Ee, which

DD

was heterozygous

for a

number

of genes.

This theory, then,

something inherent in the heterozygous
condition of a number of genes that brings about a greater vigor
suggests that there

in

is

an organism and that heterogeneity

plasmic constitution

is

a

physiological reactions in general.

increased size

is

in

the general proto-

favorable condition that stimulates

Another theory assumes that

the result of the interaction of a

number of

dominant genes for size. Thus, in the above cross, if each dominant gene added 5 cm to the height of a 30-cm plant, and if
the genes were duplicate, cumulative, and dominant, the two
parents would be respectively 40 cm and 45 cm tall, but the
hybrid between them would be 55 cm tall. This theory of the
interaction of favorable, dominant genes also has had considerable support. It is far beyond the scope of this book to present a critique of the various theories, but it might be well to
mention one or two of the important modifications of them.
Jones has proposed a modification of the dominance theory
by assuming that there might be a number of dominant genes
but that various groups of them might be linked together in the
several chromosomes. Objections to the theory of the accumulation of dominant size-producing genes were that in generations
subsequent to the F2 races would segregate out which are homozygous for all the positive genes for growth or for their negative
alleles and that the distribution in the F2 would be unsymmetrical for the characters which show^ed heterosis in the Fi. If
several size genes are on the same chromosome, and if there are
several such chromosomes, and if the positive size genes of each
chromosome are different from those of its homologue, the Fi
will show heterosis, the F2 will be symmetrically distributed, and

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

386

homozygous lines containing all the positive or all the negative
Even with
size genes will segregate out, only extremely slowly.
linked genes, we could finally arrive at homozygous strains of
maximum qualities as a result of crossovers. The process would
be merely slowed by linkage.
This theory has been accepted by a number of geneticists but
has not yet been proved to the exclusion of other possibilities,

and there are some definite objections especially by some that
approach the problem from the physiological side. Jones's hypothesis does not necessarily demand that the dominant allele
of each pair be dominant within the usual meaning of the term.
It is adequate merely to assume that the ''dominant" gene in a
heterozygote has more than half the effect that it would have
East has modified this theory further by
assuming that at most loci there are at least three alleles. One
is deleterious and the other two are contributing, but not to the
same extent. One parent might be a'^a^ and the other a^a^. There
is no dominance of either of these alleles over the other, and-

in

a homozygote.

The hybrid has the size
increase of each and therefore is larger than either parent. The
both act in the hybrid, which is a^a^.
really deleterious recessives, however,

East considers of no im-

portance in heterosis.

Some interesting ideas on heterosis have come out of the reby Dobzhansky and others on natural populations.
They have pointed out that most mutations are harmful, vary-

cent studies

ing from lethals at the one extreme to only mildly deleterious

genes at the other.

Harmful dominant mutations

are readily

eliminated by natural selection, but recessives accumulate in a

population as they usually exist in a heterozygous condition.

If

by self-fertilization, as species
of wheat, the recessives quickly become homozygous and are
The same
eliminated unless they are only slightly harmful.
would be true if the effective population size is very low that is,

the species regularly reproduces

—

if

the population

is

so small that a union of gametes with the

same harmful genes occurs frequently.

If a species has an inter-

mediate or moderately large effective population size and normally is cross-fertilized, as Drosophila pseudoobscura, probably

most domesticated animals, and possibly man, deleterious recessives accumulate in natural populations.
If inbred strains

387

Heterosis

are crossed there will be more or less pronounced heterosis, but

inbreeding with selection

may sometimes produce inbred lines

that are equal in vigor to crossbred ones.

If the effective popu-

lation size of a species is large, harmful recessives accumulate to

the fullest extent possible, depending upon the mutation rates

Homozygotes occur only very rarely, so potenharmful mutations are rarely eliminated. Large numbers
of such deleterious genes then accumulate in the population. Inbreeding will make them homozygous and, if they are not lethal,
the various inbred lines that contain them will survive, although
considerably lacking in vigor. Maize probably is to be found
of these genes.
tially

in this group,

and it is here that heterosis will be most striking

in its effect.

A word might be said of the practical value of heterosis in
breeding maize.

G. H. Shull outlined a method of breeding as

early as 1909 by which hybrid vigor would be utilized.

It was

opposed as impractical by East, who advocated using commercial strains, as had Morrow and Gardner about fifteen years
Support for a pureline method did not come until
Jones's proposal of the double cross about 1917, but in spite
of these early discoveries, hybrid corn was still very much of a

previously.

Ten years later, however, more
than 75 per cent of the commercially produced sweet corn was
hybrid corn, and by 1945 there were large areas of sweet corn
regions where no other type was grown. The best of the sweet
novelty as late as about 1930.

corn hybrids are produced from single crosses between two inbred
lines,

as Shull

had

originally proposed;

but certain practical

considerations in field corn breeding make a modification of this

method necessary. The inbred lines, themselves, are not very
productive and have smaller kernels than hybrids. Much of the
field corn is planted by machines that were constructed for larger
seeds. Jones's use of double crosses avoids this difficulty. Four
inbred lines are used, as in Fig. 101.

Line B is pollinated with

pollen of line A, and line C with pollen of line D, producing two

hybrid lines, both of which show heterosis.

The first hybrid is

then crossed by the second, and the double hybrid is used to
produce the maize crop. Because the hybrid used as a female

shows heterosis, it has large, productive ears and the large kernels
suitable for a corn-planting machine.

Inbreeding, Selection, and Heterosis

388

Heterosis is by no means confined to maize or even to plants.

One of the best examples of heterosis is the mule, and many
other examples have been described in both plants and animals.
Buchholz has recently shown that hybrid vigor is exhibited in
In seedling stages, the
crosses between some species of pines.
growth of the hybrids is much greater than in seedlings from the
wind-pollinated parents.
Comparisons of hybrids with the

parents during stages in the development of the seeds show
that in their general dimensions and in their shape indices the

embryos of the hybrids

are,

Inbred

Inbred
line B-^

line

1

A

stage for stage, intermediate beInbred

Inbred

line C '^

line D

Q

d'

CD hybrid

AB hybrid
?

AB X CD hybrid
used to produce
crop
Fig. 101.

An outline of Jones's double cross method of producing hybrid

corn commercially.

For explanation, see text.

tween those of their parents during comparable stages of growth.
However, the embryos grow more rapidly in the hybrids so that
comparable stages are reached more quickly. The embryos of
the hybrids are not larger in the mature seeds because the seeds

have a fixed size determined before fertilization which restricts
the size of the embryo.
The difference in growth rate manifested during the early stages of the development of the seed
is

again apparent in the young seedlings after they are planted.

Buchholz concludes that

in

pines hybrid vigor

physiological vigor of growth and that

its

is

definitely a

explanation

is

to be

sought in physiological and possibly biochemical investigations.

Another explanation that has been advanced to explain heterosis is

the hypothesis of A. F. Shull that heterosis is the result of

an initial stimulation resulting from the entrance of a sperm into

new cytoplasmic environment in a specifically different egg.
It has received some support but, like other questions of the role

a

of the cytoplasm, is difficult of experimental proof.

Questions and Problems

389

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
In an experiment on maize, Jones started with a variety of Learn-

1.

ing dent corn yielding 88.0 bushels per acre.
selfing,

line

After ten generations of

one line had a yield of 32.8 bushels and another of 31.8.

reached 59.3 bushels after two generations.

A third

Two plants were selfed

from this point on; after eight more generations, one yielded 32.7 bushels
per acre and the other 19.2.

Explain.

If maize is inbred until a number of homozygous hues have become

2.

would all single crosses between the various lines show the
same degree of heterosis? Explain.
3. In cotton, selection had developed excellent late-maturing types.
established,

When the boll weevil arrived, these late-maturing varieties could not be
grown in spite of their superiority in other ways. Some years later the
cotton wilt arrived and spread over large areas. How would such events
affect a cotton-breeding program?

Would selection be easier in a self-fertilized crop such as wheat or

4.

a cross-fertilized
5.

one such as maize?

Explain.

Assume that six genes. A, B, C, D, E, and F, add 4 cm each to

the height of a 50-cm plant, while their alleles

add nothing.

These

A cross is made between two plants whose genotypes are AA bb CC dd ee and aa BB cc DD EE. What is the height of
genes are dominajit.

Does the Fi show heterosis. Explain.
6. Assume that a plant has twelve dominant genes each of which adds
2 cm to the height of a plant 50 cm tall. These genes are on two chromosomes. The following cross is made:
each of these plants?

AbCdEf GhljKl
AbCdEf GhljKl

aBcDeF gHiJkL
aBcDeFgHiJkL

What would be the height of the Fi ?
7. Assume the cross in problem 6.
How many plants would be necessary in the F2 to be sure to get a homozygote as large as the Fi plants
if

there was no crossing over.

Would the result be different if there was

crossing over?
8.

Assume the cross in problem 5.

Starting with the Fi, you wish to

obtain two pure-breeding types, one of which is 74 cm tall and the other

How would you go about establishing such lines? Would either

50 cm.

line be easier to establish than the
9.

other?

Explain.

In establishing the hnes in question

8,

would

it

speed up the

process if the selections for the tall line were grown in good, rich

soil,

whereas those for the short

soil?

Explain.

line

were grown in poor, barren

Chapter 24

INTRACHROMOSOMAL ABERRATIONS
We have regarded each chromosome as a rather stable unit of
and shape and we have assumed that the chromosome number of each plant and animal is 2n in the somatic cells
of the animal body and plant sporophyte and n in gametes,
spores, and gametophytes, but we have also mentioned upon
definite size

several occasions that there are exceptions to these principles.

We have pointed out that the somatic chromosome number is
we have cited a number of examples that
chromosome is neither unchanging nor
In the next few chapters we discuss such situ-

not always 2n, and

show

definitely that a

indestructible.

more thoroughly and indicate some of the effects they
have had on evolution. That the chromosomes are fixed in their
structure and that they always occur either in the diploid or
haploid condition, except for the endosperm of angiosperms,
where they are triploid, are among the earlier concepts of genetations

ics.

Therefore, these other situations are regarded

as

chro-

Chromosomal aberrations are

of

three

Tnosomal aberrations.

types, involving pieces of chromosomes, whole chromosomes, and

whole genomes.

In this chapter, we consider the first type.

Deficiency

A deficiency is a chromosomal aberration in which a segment
chromosome is missing. A chromosome with a deficiency,

of a

therefore,

is

not a complete chromosome so that a deficiency in

one or more chromosomes of a set results in a deficient genome.

We have discussed some important points in regard to deficienChapters 2, 4, 5, 12, and 16. It might be well to summarize those points here and to add some information.
cies in

If the

missing portion

is

at the end of a chromosome, the

aberration is known as a terminal deficiency, but if it occurs at

any other place,

an intercalary deficiency or a deletion.
Terminal deficiencies are considerably less common than deleit

is

390

Deficiency

391

have been found in some organisms, and several
have been reported in maize. There has been some dispute as
tions but they

to the presence of true terminal deficiencies in Drosophila.

The

ends of chromosomes have sometimes been thought to have peculiar properties

because they do not usually become attached to

one another or to broken chromosomal segments, and the name
telomere has been given to them.

It has been suggested also that

true terminal deficiencies do not occur but that apparent terminal
deficiencies are actually intercalary deletions near one

end of

the chromosome in such a position that only the telomere
to be eliminated.

fails

Sutton, however, has found several deficiencies

which appear to be truly terminal deficiencies.
She considers that the broken ends heal and thereafter become
functionally normal and that no previously existing telomere is
present at the end of the chromosome after the break has oc-

in Drosophila

curred.
deficiencies may be
an animal has a homozygous
deficiency, it usually fails to survive to an adult stage, because
it does not have one complete set of genes.
If a deficiency occurs in the
chromosome, the effect is usually the same as if
there were a homozygous deficiency in an autosome, for the missing piece is usually not ''covered up" by a corresponding piece
of a homologous chromosome. Such a deficiency is usually lethal,
chromosome of
although there are a few deficiencies in the
Drosophila, such as that involving the yellow locus, which are
not lethal. Such nonlethal deficiencies are always very small

As we have pointed out in Chapter 2,

heterozygous or homozygous.

If

X

X

and include only one or two loci. The Y chromosome is different, for large pieces of this chromosome may be deficient
without producing any lethal effect on the fly. It is really not
so strange, however, w^hen it is remembered that much of the
Y chromosome does not contain any genes and that large pieces
could be removed without the loss of a single gene. Heterozygous deficiencies are much more viable than homozygous defichromosome, but in some animals
ciencies or deficiencies in the

X

even these result in death unless they are relatively short.
In plants a deficiency frequently fails to survive in the gametoSince the gametophyte is haploid, as we
phyte generation.
pointed out in Chapter 4, any deficiency will result in the failure
of this generation to have a complete set of genes. There is fre-

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

392

quently a difference in viability, however, between the megagametophyte and the microgametophyte, for deficient chromosomes are
sometimes carried along in the female gametophyte even though
in the

same plant they cause the male gametophyte to die.

If it

were not for this viability on the female side, heterozygous deficiencies would ordinarily be found in plants only if they arose
Because microgametophytes with a defiin sporophyte tissue.
ciency rarely survive, homozygous deficiencies are very un-

common.
Stadler has reported an interesting example of deficiency in
maize. One X-ray-induced deficiency involved one-sixth of the
length of chromosome 10.

In the male, microgametophytes bear-

ing the deficiency were apparently normal until after the division
of the microspore nucleus to form the tube and generative nuclei.

After this division, two types of pollen grains were found, large
and small. The larger ones divided earlier than the others and

were in metaphase when most of the smaller ones were still in
early prophase.

The generative nucleus

of the smaller pollen

grains was apparently normal, however, even though its division

was delayed; but when the pollen was shed, the smaller ones had
accumulated much less starch even in proportion to their size.
Normal maize pollen shrivels shortly after it is shed, but the
After 3^4 minutes
deficient grains shrivel much more rapidly.
almost all the small grains, but none of the normal ones, had
shriveled.

If deficient pollen grains are placed

fore they

have begun to

shrivel,

on the silks be-

protoplasmic movement and

digestion of food reserves occur as in normal grains, but pollen

tubes rarely,

if

ever,

emerge from the grains.

In the female gametophyte the deficiency was injurious but not
lethal.

Almost half the ovules of the heterozygous deficient plant

contained small and subnormal embryo sacs at the time of pollination, and only a small proportion was well enough developed
to function normally in fertilization and seed development.

proportion of seeds lacking an embryo was higher

The

among defi-

megagametophytes than among the nondeficient ones on
the same ears, and seeds heterozygous for the deficiency were
slightly reduced in size.
The maize plants heterozygous for
the deficiency had somewhat reduced vitality, as shown by a
slightly smaller size and a slightly delayed time of flowering, a

cient

393

Deficiency

condition often found in an organism that is heterozygous for a
deficiency.

Although homozygous deficiencies are rare in both plants and
animals and deficiencies almost never survive in the microgametophyte, McClintock has reported several deficiency mutants
in maize that not only are viable in the sporophyte but are also
transmitted through the pollen.
All these are minute deficiencies that have arisen from changes in ring-shaped chromosomes.

Pairing at zygotene in an organism with a deficiency is very

easy to understand

if

one keeps in mind the rule that, to the

fullest extent possible, pairing

between a chromosome and

its

homologue is between identical parts only so that every gene lies
alongside the same gene or one of its alleles. The configurations
to be found between a deficient chromosome and its normal
homologue are seen in Figs. 17 and 57.
It is not

known how deficiencies arise spontaneously.

It is

possible that terminal deficiencies arise by a simple breaking of

a chromosome; but although such breaking

is

standable as the result of X-ray treatment,

it is

understood if no external agent is applied.

readily under-

not so easily

Intercalary deficien-

cies after X-raying may result from two breaks in a chromosome with a dropping out of the broken piece or by one break
at two places in a twisted chromosome, followed by a fusion of

the broken ends.

It has been suggested that these deletions

may

occur spontaneously following illegitimate crossing over, a crossing over between noncorresponding parts of homologous chromo-

somes or betw^een nonhomologous chromosomes. Small deficiencies may be produced by an, X-ray hit that breaks two adjacent
gyres of the chromonema when it is coiled in early prophase
(Fig. 102), as Sax has pointed out, and may even arise spontaneously from a similar break and fusion, as Husted has found.
Studying a series of X-ray-induced deletions in Tradescantia,
Rick suggests that the large rod-shaped ones result from single
hits and large ring-shaped ones from two interstitial hits, whereas
the small deletions appear to have been caused by two breaks
in adjacent gyres of the relic coils following one or two hits.
If a piece breaks out of a chromosome, its future depends upon

whether or not it includes the centromere. If the deleted piece
lacks this important chromosomal structure, it usually fails to

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

394

go to one of the poles during mitosis and therefore usually fails
to become included in the new nucleus.

It generally

remains in

the cytoplasm, often rounding up in certain types of cells into a

very small replica of a nucleus, often termed a ^'micronucleus,"

or

Fig. 102.

Sax's explanation for the production of small deficiencies and

inversions by an X-ray hit that breaks two adjacent gyres of a chromonema

breaks are followed by a criss-cross reunion, a ring deletion will result; if by a reunion of adjacent ends, a small
coiled in early prophase.

If the

inversion will be produced.

(Redrawn from Sax in Genetics.)

but it soon becomes digested and lost to view.

chromosome

Such a broken

an acentric jragment. If the deleted
piece includes the centromere, it is a centric jragment and behaves like a normal chromosome; the remainder of the original
chromosome, which is now acentric, usually becomes lost very
piece of

is

soon.

Duplication

When, in a normal diploid organism, one or more loci, but not
so many as to constitute a whole chromosome, are present three

times or more instead of twice, the reduplicated segment is known
as a duplication.

The reduplicated segment may be a centric

fragment or it may be a chromosomal segment attached to or

chromosomes with wliich it is homologous or in one of those with which it is not homologous.
If it happens to be inserted in a homologous chromosome next
to the segment which is identical with it, the situation is one
that we have described in Chapters 13 and 17 when we discussed
the Bar and the Hairy wing duplications in Drosophila melanoinserted in either one of the

gaster.

Because the genes located in the duplicated segment are present three times instead of twice, duplications can give disturbed

Duplication
genetic ratios.

If the duplicated

395

segment lies next to the iden-

tical segment as at the Bar locus (that is, if the duplication is a

repeat), the position effect will sometimes result.

McClintock has reported an interesting situation in which
one allele for brown midrib, Bm, when present as a duplication,
produced nonbrown midrib tissue in an otherwise homozygous
6m bm (brown midrib) plant. By X-rays two deficiencies were
produced in chromosome V in maize. Each deficiency was a
small, intercalary one that became a small ring, and each carried

the

Bm gene.

Strangely, in each deletion, the original centro-

mere had broken in half so that both the small ring deletion and
the rod-shaped remainder of the chromosome had half a centromere, and each half centromere was functional. When a plant
possessed two normal chromosomes V, each of which had the
bm gene, and one of the rings with the Bm gene, it was nonbrown midrib because one Bm gene was dominant over two bm
genes.
The small ring-shaped chromosomes, however, behaved
abnormally in somatic mitoses. They were lost from the nuclei
or they changed in size.
In these Bm duplications the plants
were green because of the Bm gene but had streaks of brown
midrib tissue.
Cytological examination showed that most of
these streaks of brown midrib tissue had cells in which the ring
chromosome bearing the Bm gene became lost at some previous
somatic division.
The ring chromosome was lost during any
stage of development. If it was lost very early, the entire plant
was brown midrib; if it was lost later, there were wide sectors
of brown midrib tissue; and if lost very late in ontogeny, there
were merely small patches of bm, cells. Thus by the peculiar
behavior of these chromosomes during somatic development,
many types of variegated brown midrib plants were produced.
The way these ring chromosomes change in size is very interesting.
Let us assume a ring whose segments are numbered 1
to 8 (Fig. 103). After it has divided, in some mitotic prophases
the two sister halves form one continuous ring with two centromeres instead of two freely separating rings with one centromere
each. Whether this occurs by a somatic crossing over or in some
other way has not been determined. At metaphase, this small
dicentric ring opens out on the equator with each centromere
orientated towards one pole.

Especially

if

the original ring

is

very small, the new dicentric ring usually remains at the equator

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

396

and fails to be included in the daughter nuclei. Sometimes, however, the ring breaks and the centromeres can move to the poles.
Each daughter nucleus will then have a segment of this original
ring. The two broken ends of each ring unite, and thus new rings
are formed. Since the place where the dicentric ring may break
is

not necessarily the place where the two original sister halves
Anaphase

7

4

b

b
2

8Kj
Late anaphase

Telophase

/^^

ring

Late anaphase

r^

r\

:o:

K:^

Fig. 103.

Late anaphase

Telophase
1

8

^'

McClintock's explanation of ring chromosomes in maize. A
is shown in the resting stage at upper left; the small

chromosome

oval is the centromere and the numbers represent segments of the chromosome. At upper middle is a prophase showing a "crossover" between the

chromatids of the divided ring chromosome.
oriented on the spindle a dicentric is seen as at upper light.

two

sister

When this is

The chromatin
ring chronew
a-a,
strands break at various places. If a break occurs at
mosomes will form as at lower left; if the break is at b-b, the new ring chro-

mosomes will be of unequal size as at lower middle; a break at c-c will
(Courtesy of Dr. B. McChntock in
produce the rings at lower right.
Genetics.)

Inversion

397

become joined and since it may be different in different cells, the
subsequent rings may be either larger or smaller than the original

and may differ from cell to cell.
Inversion

An inversion is an aberration in which one segment of a chromosome has become inverted in position so that a chromosome
which was previously a b c d e f g hi j now has a changed structure such as a b c d g f e h i j.
The e f g segment in the original
chromosome has become completely inverted in its position.
How both terminal and intercalary inversions are produced is
not entirely clear but, like deficiencies, they arise spontaneously

and can also be produced by various types of irradiation.

The

intercalary type is far more common.

AVe pointed out in Chapter 4 that the rule of strict part-bypart pairing at zygotene holds even for a pair of homologous

chromosomes one of which has an inversion. The effect of this
rule is to throw the chromosomes into a loop which includes the
inverted segment and the noninverted corresponding segment of
the homologue (Fig. 17). This loop effect is also found in the
salivary gland chromosomes as the result of the pairing of identical bands (Fig. 104).
One of the most interesting features of inversions is the result
produced when one or more crossovers occur between chromatids
within the inverted segment, perhaps best understood from Fig.
105. Since the chromosomal segments in the inverted region are
perfectly normal, they "split" into two chromatids, just as any
other regions of a chromosome and crossing over can take place
between any two of the four chromatids just as it can in any
noninverted region. Because of the inversion, however, the subsequent results are different, and they are most striking at anaphase of the two meiotic divisions.
If the inversion does not include the centromere and if one
crossover occurs within the inversion, two of the four chromatids
will be unchanged; the other two chromatids, however, will become joined together in such a way that a long chromosome with
two centromeres and a much shorter fragment with no centromere will be produced. At anaphase of the first meiotic division,
the long chromosome will be so oriented that the two centromeres
;

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

398

will be at opposite poles whereas the segment between them will

extend from pole to pole as a chromatid bridge (Figs. 105, 106,
and 107). At each pole will be one unchanged chromatid, and

on the equator and move toward neither
This dicentric bridge chromosome soon will break, and

the fragment will
pole.

Fig. 104.

lie

Pairing in salivary gland chromosomes of Drosophila melano-

gaster heterozygous for an inversion.

(Redrawn from Dobzhansky and

Epling in Publication 554 of the Carnegie Institution of Washington [1944].)

the fragment will be included in one of the two daughter cells.

The result will be two cells with one normal and one broken
chromatid that will appear more or less normal one cell will also
have a fragment. The anaphase of the second division will
appear more or less normal, although one cell will contain a
fragment that will probably not enter into division. The four
chromatids can be identified by tracing the chromatids in the
;

prophase drawing at the top of Fig. 105 and allowing for a
crossing over at either 1 or 2.

two crossovers within the inversion involving all
four strands, as at 1 and 2 in Fig. 105, first anaphase will consist
of a double chromatid bridge and two unpaired fragments. Since
If there are

each bridge will break during first anaphase, the second anaphase

Inversion

399

appear more or less normal except for the fragments. One
fragment may be found in each cell or there may be two in one
and none in the other. Other anaphase configurations may be
will

3

=1=

i

I

Fig.

I

abed
Configurations at Anaphase I

105.

(second row)

above,
(h)

I

(first

row) and Anaphase II

following crossing over within the inversion

diagrammed

(a) Configurations following a crossover at 1 or 2 in the inversion.

Those following crossovers at both

segment,

(c)

and 2, both within the inverted
(d) Those
3.
(Courtesy of Dr. B. McClintock in
1

Configurations following crossovers at 2 and

following crossovers at

1,

2,

and 3.

Research Bulletin 290 of the University of Missouri Agricultural Experi-

ment Station.)

found

if

there

is

a crossover between the inversion loop and

the centromere as well as within the inversion.

Dicentric chro-

mosomes and chromatid bridges arise spontaneously and have
been induced by X-rays (Fig. 107).

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

400

If the inversion includes the centromere and there is one cross-

over within it, dicentric chromosomes and fragments are not to
be found, but only two of the resulting four chromatids are normal.

One of the chromatids will be duplicated for one of the

segments not included in the inversion and will be deficient for

Fig. 106. Chromatid bridges and a fragment in a triploid natural hybrid
between Tradescantia paludosa and T. canaliculata.
Three of the 18
chromosomes are not shown in the photomicrograph. One long bridge
with a fragment is approximately in the center of the figure, and the other,

a

much shorter bridge, is to one side.

the other; the fourth chromatid will be deficient for the

first

segment and duplicated for the other.

Because of the presence
of loops at zygotene or in salivary gland chromosomes and of
chromatid bridges and fragments at anaphase in natural populations,

the possibilities to be realized in inversion heterozy-

gotes should be understood.

Plants or animals homozygous for an inversion do not present

same problems that we find in those that have only one
chromosome with an inverted segment. No loops are observed

the

Inversion

401

prophase and no dicentric bridge chromatids or fragments are present at either the first or second anaphase. Only
two differences may be observed between an inversion homozyat first

gote and the original stock.

In the first place, the linear order

of the genes in the chromosome bearing the inversion is not the

Fig. 107. Dicentric chromatids in microspores of Tradescantia following
treatment with X-rays, (a) T. gigantea; two bridges with balanced fragments at anaphase following radiation during the resting stage preceding
(b) T. sp,; anaphase showing aberration produced
one hit at prophase; one chromatid bridge and a partly straightened
U-shaped fragment are present, (c) Metaphase showing a dicentric chromosome and an accompanying fragment; this is a two-hit chromosome
aberration, {d) Anaphase showing the behavior of dicentric chromosomes.
{h, c, and d courtesy of Dr. Sax in Genetics; a, original.)

the microspore division,
bj'-

same throughout as in the original chromosome, for the genes in
the inverted segment are in reverse order with respect to the
remainder of the chromosome. Consequently, the linkage map
of the chromosome with the inversion is different from the map
in the original.

genes

lie

In the second place, because of the inversion,

next to a different region of the chromosome from the

This change in position may cause one or more
The meiotic beof those genes to produce a new phenotype.
havior of the plant or animal with the homozygous inversion is

original one.

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

402

perfectly normal.

inversion

is

If,

however, the strain with the homozygous

crossed with the original strain, the offspring will

be heterozygous for the inversion and all will have loops at zygoEspecially if the inversion is large, crossing over within
tene.
the inversion will produce a fairly high degree of sterility among
the heterozygotes. This inversion may act as a barrier to hybridization in nature and in that way may have some effect on

evolution within the species.

One other property of inversions might be mentioned here.

In

inversion heterozygotes, the inversion may act as a complete or
partial crossover suppressor in the pair of chromosomes in which

Because of this property, they are used as a tool in
the methods for detecting lethal mutations, as w^e have mentioned in Chapter 16.
Plants and animals may be heterozygous for two or more inversions at the same time. If an organism has two inversions,
they may be in two different pairs of chromosomes or both may
be in the same chromosome. If both are in the same chromosome,
it is

found.

they may be independent, included, or overlapping as Dobzhansky and Sturtevant have described. If the original chromosome

ab c d ef g hi j, one that differs from it by two independent
A chromosome differing
inversions would he ab e d c f g ih j.
from the original by two included inversions would he ab h g ef
is

dcij, and one that had two overlapping inversions might be

ab f ehg c dij.

This last type could originate

if

version resulted in the chromosome abfedcghij.

the

first in-

If the sec-

ond inversion included the segments from d through
the overlapping chromosome would be obtained. Such overlapping inversions have occurred spontaneously a number of times
in Drosophila pseudoobscura. An appreciation of them is neces-

h, inclusive,

sary for an understanding of the historical development of the
various strains of this species and for a comparison of different
races and species.

Translocations

A translocation is a chromosomal aberration by which a portion of one chromosome is transferred to another position on the
same chromosome or to another chromosome by some process

that is not normal crossing over.

If

nothing else occurs except

the transfer of one chromosomal segment to another, the aberra-

403

Translocations
tion is a simple translocation.

are probably rare,
cists have

They

and some geneti-

questioned their existence.

Far more common is a reciprocal
translocation, by which a piece of
one chromosome becomes exchanged
for a segment of a nonhomologous
The exchanged segchromosome.
ments need not be of equal length.
If not, they are often detected cyto-

by the differences in chromosome size in the original and inlogically

terchanged strains (Fig. 108)

Like inversions, translocations may
be both homozygous and heterozygous.

Also like inversions, trans-

location homozygotes are

little

dif-

ferent cytologically from the normal

two members of
each pair of chromosomes are alike,
a translocation homozygote will show

type.

Since the

nothing but normally paired chro-

mosomes.

The only

difference ob-

servable cytologically between this

and the original type which gave
rise

to the reciprocal translocation

may appear if the two translocated

Fig. 108.

Translocation in-

duced by X-rays in the grouse
locust, Apotettix eurycephalus

Hancock.

Top, primary spermatocyte of a normal individual showing six pairs of

chromosomes and an unpaired

X chromosome.
mary

Middle, pri-

spermatocyte

of

X-

rayed individual showing that

pieces are of different size.

If a long

segment was translocated from one
chromosome to another and a short
segment from the second to the first,
the chromosomes would be of different lengths from those observed in
the original type.

As is also true of

inversions, the presence of a homozy-

gous translocation

may not be de-

a piece of one of the

logues of

chromosome

homo1

had

broken off and become translocated to one homologue of

chromosome 4. Bottom, spermagonium of the X-rayed
individual. Note that in the
two lower figures one chro-

mosome 1 is shorter and one

by cytological examination.

chromosome 4 is longer than
normal. (Redrawn from Na-

It will, however, bring about a change

bours and Robertson in Pro-

groups and therefore

ceedings of the National Acad-

tectable

in the linkage

can be detected by a genetic study.

emy of Sciences.)

404

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

In Drosophila, translocation

homozygotes are largely lethal.
How simple translocations and reciprocal translocations occur
is not definitely known.
As the simple type is very rare, perhaps
does not exist, there is no need to speculate upon how it may
Reciprocal translocations are well known both in wild
populations, where they have sometimes been of considerable
arise.

evolutionary significance, and in plants that have been subjected to X-rays. One of the more likely explanations is that a

break and a realignment follow illegitimate crossing over between nonhomologous chromosomes.
^leiotic configurations are very interesting in plants or animals that are heterozygous for a reciprocal translocation. They

are easy to figure out if we remember our rule that like parts of

a

chromosome pair only with

like

parts.

If

heterozygous for one reciprocal translocation,

an organism
it

is

has a set of

four chromosomes, no two members of which are alike. Let us
suppose that the original stock had one pair of chromosomes
designated abed and another slightly shorter pair k 1 7n (Fig.
109).
If one reciprocal translocation had occurred, two new

chromo-

somes would be present as would one of each of the original
The new chromosomes would be variously constituted,
depending upon where the translocated pieces had broken off,
but they might well he ab m and kl e d. Since the a pairs with
the a, and each other segment pairs at zygotene with the corresponding segment, a cross-shaped configuration would be produced. It would not necessarily be a regular cross; that would
depend upon the relative lengths of the original chromosomes
and of the translocated pieces. Unless one of the translocations
was very short, however, one or more chiasmata would form in
each arm, and they would be especially obvious at diplotene.
The metaphase configuration would depend upon the number
and position of the chiasmata in each arm and also upon the
pairs.

degree of terminalization of the chiasmata.

If terminalization

was complete, and if at least one chiasma had formed in each
arm, the metaphase configuration would be a ring of four chromosomes. Such rings have been found in a number of plants that
have a reciprocal translocation. If terminalization is not complete, the interstitial chiasmata will be numerous and the

Translocations

405

may more nearly approach a cross than a ring.
In organisms in which terminalization is complete or nearly so,

configuration

the chromosomes tend to become oriented on the metaphase plate
in such a

way that alternate chromosomes go to the same pole;
chromosomes line up in a purely random
The ring may consist of more than four chromosomes

in other forms, the

manner.

o

a
Fig. 109.

c

Pairing of chromosomes in an individual heterozygous for a

(a) The two original chromosomes (left) and the
two interchange chromosomes. (6) Diplotene showing eight chromatids
and one or two chiasmata in each arm. (c) The following metaphase (not
showing chromatids) assuming complete terminalization of chiasmata. The
chromosome at the left in (a) would be chromosome ab cd oi the text and
the one immediately to the right chromosome k I m. Next in order would
be the ab m and klcd chromosomes mentioned in the text.

reciprocal translocation,

Rhoeo (Fig.
110), and such large rings may also be produced by X-rays.
In plants like Datura and Oenothera, where there is a considerable number of reciprocal translocations in various strains

as in numerous wild strains of Oenothera and in

but in which terminalization is complete, the rings are usually
oriented as in Fig. Ilia, with alternate chromosomes going to
each pole and therefore with alternate chromosomes included in
each type of gamete. In plants in which there is no terminalization, however, all three possible orientations (Fig Ilia, h,

and c)

are usually found with approximately equal frequency.

If, in

a

given plant or animal, the passing of alternate chromosomes to

same pole is a regular feature of meiosis, all the spores or
gametes of that organism will be viable and functional and that
the

406

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

organism will be highly fertile. On the other hand, if the passing
of alternate or adjacent chromosomes to the same pole is a purely
random matter, only about one-third of the spores or gametes

have a complete genome (Fig. Ill, bottom) and, especially
in plants, the organism will be only partly fertile. Theoretically,
two-thirds of the gametes of such plants will be sterile. In sevwill

Chromosomes of Rhoeo discolor at the first meiotic metaphase.
chromosomes are arranged in a complete ring because of numerous
(Courtesy of Dr. K. Sax in the Journal of the
reciprocal translocations.
FiG. 110.

All the

Arnold Arboretum.)

however, only about half the gametes were
found to be sterile. Brink, Burnham, Sutton, and others have

eral actual cases,

reported the occurrence of "semi-sterile" or "half-sterile" plants
in maize, peas, and other plants (Fig. 112).
If a translocation heterozygote is self-fertilized, three types of

offspring will be produced in a 1

:

2

:

1 ratio.

One-fourth of the

homozygous and will be like the original type
without the translocation, whereas one-fourth will be homozygous but will be of the interchange or translocation type. Both
types will exhibit perfectly normal chromosomal pairing and
offspring will be

will be highly fertile.

The other half of the offspring will be

translocation heterozygotes and will therefore show cross-shaped
configurations in zygotene.

If

alternate or adjacent chromo-

somes in this translocation heterozygote can pass to the same

407

Translocations
pole with equal frequency, these plants will be semi-sterile.

The

homozygous, noninterchange line is sometimes referred
to as the "standard" type, following the practice in Datura.
Apparently reciprocal translocations have occurred in a number of species and races of Datura. Blakeslee and his co-workers
original

>—

Viable

Inviable

a
The three possible orientations in rings of four chromosomes
from a reciprocal translocation. In (a) two viable types result;
one has the two interchange chromosomes and the other the two noninterchange chromosomes. In (b) and (c) all the gametes are inviable for all
carry a deficiency and also a duplication.
Fig. 111.

resulting

have found that many different types of interchanged chromosomes exists in six species. They were originally called "races,"
but they are now referred to as "prime types." The methods of
analysis of these types and of identification of an unknown are
interesting.
The ordinary species of Datura have twelve pairs
of chromosomes, each pair designated by two numbers, each of
which represents the end of a chromosome. Thus in prime type
1 (formerly line 1) of D. stramonium, the twelve pairs of homolo-

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

408

gous chromosomes may be identified as 1-2, 3-4, 5-6, 7-8, 9-10,
As this
11-12, 13-14, 15-16, 17-18, 19-20, 21-22, and 23-24.

chromosome is represented twice.
When a second prime type (PT2; formerly, line B) is crossed
is

a pure-breeding type, each

Pollen grains in semi-sterile maize. The large, round, full,
Fig. 112.
deeply staining grains are viable, but the small, shriveled, nonstaining
ones are inviable, being nothing but empty pollen grain walls. (Courtesy
of Dr. R. A. Brink in the Journal of Heredity.)

with a plant of PTl, ten pairs and a circle of four chromosomes
are found in the first meiotic prophase of the hybrid. The ten
pairs signify that

PTl and PT2 have ten chromosomes which

are identical, whereas the circle of four indicates that one inter-

change between segments of two chromosomes of PTl has difThe interchange had occurred between chroferentiated PT2.

mosomes 1-2 and 17-18 so that PT2 is homozygous for the new
chromosomes 1 18 and 2 17. In other words, the ends numbered
•

•

Translocations

409

and 18 had exchanged places. Because PT2 is homozygous
chromosomes, it shows nothing but
twelve pairs of chromosomes. By an observation of the chromosomes or of the meiotic divisions of these two types by themselves, there is no indication that they differ by a reciprocal
2

for both these translocation

translocation.
tion, for the

It is only the hybrid that reveals this informahybrids are heterozygous for the translocation and

form the circle:

18

17
18

17

Another prime type is PT3.

This type also has nothing but

paired chromosomes and therefore
versions that it might include.

is

homozygous

for

any in-

When it is crossed with PTl, it

also forms one circle of four in the hybrid, showing that it, also,

from PTl by one interchange. The interchange that differentiates PT3 from PTl may or may not be the same interchange that differentiates PT2 from PTl. The only way to
determine this is to cross plants of PT2 and PT3. When it is
done, the hybrid shows two circles of four chromosomes. If both
PT2 and PT3 differed from PTl by the same interchange, their
differs

chromosomal segments would have a similar arrangement and
the hybrid between PT2 and PT3 would show nothing but paired
chromosomes. The fact that two circles are formed shows that
they differ by two interchanges involving four chromosomes.
Thus PT2 differs from PTl by having 1-18 and 2-17 instead of
1-2 and 17-18 chromosomes, whereas PT3 differs from it by
having two chromosomes that are 11-21 and 12-22 instead of
11-12 and 21-22. When PT2 and PT3 are crossed, the chromosomes in the hybrid pair as:
11

12

11

12

21

22
21

22

410

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

Another interesting prime type is PT94.
with PTl, the offspring show a
nine pairs.

When this is crossed

circle of six

chromosomes and

How could a circle of six be produced?

If one inter-

change between 1-2 and 17-18 produced an interchange as 1-18
and 17-2, a second interchange between the new 1-18 chromosome and another one such as 13-14 would result in three new

chromosomes, 1-14, 13-18, and 17-2, no one of which would be
found in PTl. If this new type was then crossed with PTl, the
offspring would form a circle of six, as:

were true, PT94 would differ from PT2 by
only one interchange and should therefore produce offspring
with it that had only a circle of four. Actual crosses between
these two prime types result in hybrids that have only four chromosomes in a circle. On the other hand, PT94 should then differ from PT3 by two translocations in three chromosomes and
If this hypothesis

another in a separate pair of chromosomes.

Cytological observa-

show one circle of six
The chromosome ring configura-

tions of hybrids between these two types

and a separate circle of four.
tions in these hybrids are:
14

17

14

17

11

13

18

13

11

18

21

12

12

22
21

22

It is by crossing together all these prime types that the various

translocations that have arisen in

them can be identified.

It

happens that in Datura terminalization is practically complete
Therefore,
so that alternate chromosomes go to the same pole.
these translocation heterozygotes are usually highly

fertile, al-

though some combinations give about 25 per cent sterility and
the environment has a considerable effect on the fertility of

some of the hybrids.

Questions and Problems

411

Chromosomal translocations have been worked out by Blakeslee and by Bergner for six species, including 681 races of D.
stramonium.

B-Type Chromosomes
In discussing fragments,

we have pointed out that segments

chromosome that have a centromere behave as a normal
chromosome in both mitosis and meiosis except for difficulties of
chiasma formation resulting from their small size. A number of
such very small chromosomes are found in some strains of maize.
These chromosomes, which consist of a centromere and heterochromatin with a much smaller amount of euchromatin, are
of a

No genes have been identified in

called

B-type chromosomes.

them.

Many strains do not have these small chromosomes, but

when they are present, they can be accumulated by breeding.
Randolph has by selection produced plants with as many as
chromosomes in addition to the twenty normal chromosomes. These chromosomes are not essential to
normal growth and reproduction and do not appear to have any
beneficial effects. Large numbers of B-type chromosomes, howthirty-four B-type

ever,

appear to bring about reduced fertility, decrease in vigor,

increase in the size of the pollen and of other reproductive struc-

and an increase in cell
Although the origin of these chromosomes has not been

tures, defective seeds, scarred endosperm,
size.

satisfactorily explained, it has been suggested that the effects of

may be the result of genes located in the
euchromatic regions. By breakage of the B-type chromosomes,

these large numbers

smaller ones have been produced and are generally classified

according to their size.

They range from the C-type, which is

shorter than the B's but

still is

is

elongated, to the F-type, which

only slightly above the lower limit of visibility of the photo-

microscope.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Two of the chromosomes in a certain plant are abcdefghij and

Show how they would pair at meiosis. If such a plant were
selfed, what would be the viable offspring?
Would such heterozygotes
be more likely to be found among the offspring in plants or in animals?
abghij.

Explain.

Intrachromosomal Aberrations

412
2.

Position effect has been observed in certain duplications.

theoretically possible that

it

Is

it

might be found as well in other chromo-

somal aberrations? Explain.
3. If X-rays produce a small ring deficiency, show how the behavior
will differ if the ring has the centromere, if the centromere remains with
the rod-shaped segment of the .chromosome, and if the centromere splits
in half so that the ring has half and the rod has half.

A man has two strains of a particular plant.

One is homozygous
for the chromosome abode jghijklmn and the other is homozygous for the
chromosome ahcdejghilkjmn. Show the configurations in each of these
4.

plants and in the hybrid between them.
5.

What would be the gametes of the hybrid in problem 4 if there

was (a) a single crossover within the inversion, (6) one crossover between the inversion and the centromere; (c) two crossovers within the
inversion involving all four strands;

{d) one crossover in the inversion

and one between the inversion and the centromere; and (e) two crossovers in the inversion and one between the inversion and the cetromere.

Diagram the configurations in each part of problem 5 in the first
anaphase and second anaphase of meiosis.
7. Diagram the configurations formed by each of the following pairs
6.

of chromosomes:
(a) abcdefghij and abedcfgihj

(6) abhgefdcij and abcdefghij
(c)

8.

abcdefghij and abfehgcdij

A geneticist has a strain of plants two of whose chromosomes are

abcdefghij and klmnopqrst.

He subjects them to X-rays and produces
The two
Diagram the zygo-

a reciprocal translocation between these two chromosomes.

new chromosomes are abcdefghpqrst and klmnoij.
tene configurations in the translocation heterozygote.
9.

What would be the offspring of the translocation heterozygote in

question 8?

How would the chromosomes pair in each of the types of

offspring?
10.

In Datura quercifolia, three interchange types have been found

and have the following chromosomes: type

1

= 1-18, 3-4, 5-6, 7-20,

9-10, 11-21, 13-14, 15-16; 17-2, 19-8, 12-22, and 23-24; type 2 = 1-18,
3-4, 5-6, 7-20, 9-2, 11-21, 13-14, 15-16, 17-10; 19-8; 12-22, and 23-24;

type 3 = M8, 3-4, 5-6, 7-8, 9-10, 11-21, 13-14, 15-16, 17-2; 19-20;
What would be the chromosomal arrangement at
12-22, and 23-24.
meiotic first prophase in the hybrids between type 1 and type 2, between

type

1

and type 3, and between type 2 and type 3?

Questions and Problems

413

What would be the chromosomal arrangement in hybrids between
these three types and PTl of D. stramonium (see text) ?
11.

12.

A plant has the following chromosomes: 1-2, 3-4, 5-6, 7-8, 9*10,

X-rayed and an interchange occurs between
chromosomes 7-8 and 11-12, so that the new chromosomes are 7-12
and 11-8. The homozygous interchange type is later X-rayed and new
11-12, 13-14, 15-16.

It is

interchange types are produced,

(a)

One produces a circle of four with

the interchange type and only pairs with the original type;

(b)

an-

other produces a circle of four with the interchange type and two
circles of four

with the original type;

(c)

a third produces a circle of

four with the original type and a circle of six with the interchange
type.

types?

What might be the interchanges that formed these three new

Chapter 25

ANEUPLOIDS AND NONDISJUNCTION
We discussed in the last chapter such chromosomal aberrations
as deficiencies, duplications, inversions,

these aberrations

and translocations.

All

involved segments of chromosomes but not

whole chromosomes.

We shall consider in this chapter abnormal

chromosomes will be deficient from a genome or will be present as extra chromosomes.
Some of these whole-chromosome aberrations are similar to some
situations in which one or more wt\ole

of the intrachromosomal abnormalities except that they involve

a complete chromosome instead of a piece.

For example, a chromosome may be missing, just as a chromosomal segment may be
deficient.
An extra chromosome may be present in the same
manner that a segment may be duplicated. Of course a chromosome could not be inverted because a chromosome has no fixed
position in the sense that an inverted segment is fixed in its
inverted position by its attachment to the remainder of the
chromosome. Finally, attached-X strains are examples of the
translocation of one whole chromosome to another. Whether an
aberration involves a whole chromosome or only a segment, the
behavior at zygotene is determined by the rule that the parts of a
chromosome pair only with homologous chromosomal segments.
Chromosomal aberrations which include whole chromosomes but
not chromosomal sets are termed aneuploids.

Monosomies

A monosomic type is an individual which is deficient for one
whole chromosome.

Since, in a diploid animal, the chromosome
number in the somatic cells is 2n, that in a monosomic form of
the same species would be 2n — 1.
The characteristics of a
monosomic are essentially the same as those of a deficiency. If
the lost chromosome in an animal is small, the animal may survive but the genes in the missing chromosome will be absent; if
the lost chromosome is large, the animal will not survive; n — 1
414

Monosomies

415

gametophytes usually do not survive; animals homozygous for a
deficient whole chromosome do not survive.
Probably the best-known monosomic is the haplo-IV type of
Droso'phila melanogaster. This type is deficient one of the members of the very small pair of chromosomes known as chromosome IV. Since this chromosome is exceedingly small, and since
it is no longer than some of the missing segments in flies deficient
for parts of the three other chromosomes, haplo-IV types survive.
Since these diploid organisms do not have two complete genomes,
they are not so robust or so healthy as their normal brothers and
They also have
sisters and they are a little slower to develop.
bristles which are shorter and eyes which are more roughened

than those of normal, wild-type flies.

We pointed out in the last chapter that homozygous deficiencies produced a lethal effect except rarely where the missing seg-

ment was very small.
is,

Since the fourth chromosome, small as it

greatly exceeds such a segment in length, no flies have been

found which have no fourth chromosome. Similarly, large deleProbably for that
tions may be lethal even if heterozygous.
reason no flies have been found which are haplo-II or haplo-III.
In diploid plants large deletions usually do not survive the
gametophyte stage. Similarly, in normal, diploid plants, a missIn
ing chromosome is lethal in the gametophyte generation.
polyploids, however, where every chromosome is represented more

than twice in the sporophyte and where every chromosomal segment may be present more than once in the gametophyte generation, the loss of one chromosome need not result in the absence
In such plants, monosomic types may
exist but, strictly speaking, they are not 2n — 1 but 4n — 1. In

of a complete genome.

fact, Lammerts has pointed out that the discovery of monosomies

in a diploid species would be evidence of its polyploid nature.

Chromosome pairing in a monosomic is just what would be
expected from the rule of strict part-by-part pairing at zygotene.
If one whole chromosome is missing, the homologue has

nothing with which to pair, and therefore behaves as a univalent

Although all the other chromosomes may line up
in pairs at first metaphase, the univalent may be found on the
equator by itself. At anaphase, then, it may pass apparently at
random to either pole, giving theoretically gametes with n and

chromosome.

those with n — 1 chromosomes in equal numbers.

Such univa-

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

416
lents

frequently behave abnormally at meiosis, often lagging

behind the other chromosomes and failing to be included in the
daughter nuclei. Because of such lagging, a higher percentage

— 1 gametes may be found than would be expected. McClintock has found a 2n — 1 chromosomal chimera in a maize
of n

plant

which

clearly

showed

nine bivalents and one uni-

valent at the metaphase
the

first

of

meiotic division in-

stead of the expected ten bivalents (Fig. 113).

This uni-

valent usually lagged at the

equator

after

the

bivalents

had separated or it split into
two halves which were frequently not included in the

daughter

nuclei.

Root-tip

from the same plant
showed twenty chromosomes.
Apparently, early in ontogeny

.studies
Fig.

meiotic

113.

Metaphase

division

in

the

of

the

first

developing

microspores of a 2n — 1 maize plant.

a mitosis

had been irregular,

Nine bivalents and one univalent are
present. (Courtesy of Dr. B. McClin-

and the upper part of the
monosomic.
became
plant
tock in the Journal of Heredity.)
Since maize is presumably a
diploid, a monosomic would not be likely to occur unless it was
produced in this manner by an abnormal somatic mitosis.
Trisomies

an organism has an extra chromosome, it is known as a
trisomic. Normally, this name implies that one complete chromosome is present three times rather than twice, as it would be
in a normal diploid but in a few cases the extra chromosome is
not a normal complete chromosome but an interchange chromoIf

;

some.

One of the well-known trisomies is the triplo-IV Drosophila.
Unlike the haplo-IV, in which one of the fourth chromosomes is
missing, this type contains one extra member of chromosome IV
so that it has in all nine chromosomes instead of eight. Also
unlike the haplo-IV type, triplo-IV

flies

cannot be identified

Trisomies

417

with any degree of reliability by their general phenotypic appearance.

In fact, in general, an extra chromosome does not produce

an effect as a missing one. In plants trisomies
are much more frequent than monosomies, and the extra chromosome does not have the same lethal effect, at least in the female
gametophyte, that is observed in monosomic types.
Chromosome pairing in a trisomic is very interesting, and, to
understand it, we must understand three principles.
(1) With
a very few minor exceptions, chromosome pairing at zygotene is
between homologous chromosomal segments only.
(2) At any
one place, chromosome pairing is between two chromosomes only.
(3) Except for mechanical difficulties that might influence two
regions near to one another on a chromosome, the two threads
that pair at one place on the chromosomes have no determining
so

striking

influence on the threads that pair at any other place.

Unless the

chromosomes are very short, all three chromosomes will be involved in the pairing at various places so that the three chromosomes will together form a trivalent configuration. If two of the
three homologues are paired throughout their length while the

chromosomes will not
form one configuration but will be paired as a bivalent and a
This bivalent will arrange itself on the equator in
univalent.

third is not paired at any point, the three

manner as any other bivalent, but the univalent will
appear on the equator by itself and behave much as does the

the same

univalent in a monosomic.

Usually, pairing occurs in such a

manner that a trivalent is formed (Fig. 114).
After pairing has occurred, the chromatids form chiasmata,

and the characteristic diplotene appearance of nodes and internodes is observed as in any normal bivalent. Perhaps the process

most easily understood if the figure is not regarded as a trivalent but as a combination of several bivalent segments. Each
is

bivalent segment then acts like the segments of a bivalent con-

These chiasmata
If they do, the chromosomes will

figuration, forming chiasmata in the same way.

may or may not terminalize.

be joined together at the ends, and the particular figure will de-

pend upon the position of the paired segments. At diakinesis and
at the following metaphase, the trivalent may have the form of a
chain of three chromosomes, or of a ring of two with the third

chromosome attached to the ring at one end

(a ring-and-rod)

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

418

or of the letter "Y," or finally of a ring bivalent with the third

chromosome attached to the ring at each end.
When the chromosomes orient themselves on the spindle of
the

meiotic division, the trivalent takes a position on the

first

Diakinesis

Diplotene

Pachytene

Fig. 114.

Trivalent configurations.

(with complete terminalization)

A chain of three, a ring and rod,

chromosomes joined together at each end, and a Y-shaped trivalent
The possible pairing arrangements at pachytene and the formation of chiasmata in the paired segments at diplotene
are indicated. It is assumed that terminalization is complete.
three

are illustrated at diakinesis.

equator with the bivalents and adjusts itself so that the centromeres point towards the poles as well as they can. At first anaphase, regardless of which of the four types the trivalent has

assumed, two of the three homologous chromosomes go to one
pole and the third goes to the other; it is purely a matter of
chance to which pole the extra chromosome is transmitted. After

two

of the gametes or spores will be

normal haploid
structures whereas the others will have n -\- 1 chromosomes and,

meiosis,

if they

are viable, will be able to transmit the trisomic condition.

Trisomies

419

The question of the viability of the gametophytes that bear
the extra chromosome is very interesting, for decidedly the presence of an extra chromosome upsets the balance of the genes. It
is true that in a trisomic there is no incomplete genome as there
is in a monosomic type, but it is conceivable that the genie balance will be so disturbed that the gametophyte generation will
not be normal. One of the most complete studies of the effect of
the extra chromosome has been in the genus Datura.

The Jimson
D.
weed,
stramonium, has normally twelve pairs of chromosomes.
It is conceivable, therefore,

that twelve different trisomic types

might be found, each one of which is trisomic for a different
one of the twelve pairs. In the normal diploid each chromosome
is

represented twice; therefore each gene in the plant is repre-

sented twice.

Supposedly, the plant has existed in that condition

for a long time,

an unbalance.

and any variation from it is in the direction of
Thus if a certain chromosome is trivalent while

all the others are bivalent, its genes will each be represented three

times, and the characters controlled by those genes will be exag-

gerated.

Since each of the twelve pairs of chromosomes bears

might well be possible to identify from their
phenotypes twelve morphological types which differ from the
normal and also from each other, each of which is trisomic for
one of the twelve pairs of chromosomes. Blakeslee and his coworkers have identified twelve such morphological types and
have determined cytologically that they are trisomic forms. Figure 115 shows the capsules of each of these twelve types and
below them the chromosome with respect to which the types are
different genes,

it

trisomic.

Such an unbalance, however, may affect not only the phenotype of the plants but also the viability of the gametophyte
generation.
It is more reasonable to expect an unbalance in
the gametophyte generation than in the sporophyte. The chromosome number of trisomic sporophytes is 2n + 1? which means
that the genes in the trisomic chromosome stand in the relation-

3:2 to those in the other chromosomes.

However,
gametophytes which bear the extra chromosome have n + 1
chromosomes. In those gametophytes the genes in the trisomic
chromosome are twice as numerous as those in the other chromosomes, and, therefore, there is a greater unbalance in the
gametophyte than in the sporophyte. Specifically, however, only
ship

of

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

420

NORMAL

KWWM

32

.

3^^S^^4 ^^^^-^^-^ 6 7^^^8
5^

ROLLED

GLOSSY

ssssosisiio

its^gz£^i2

ECHINUS

COCKLEBUR

17^1112^18
POINSETTIA

19

^^^^20
SPINACH

BUCKLING

ELONGATE

13ESSM3W ismmniiiiaie
MlCROCARPlC

21

SB

22

GLOBE

REDUCED

2

3p8l 24
ILEX

Fig. 115. Seed capsules of Blakeslee's twelve primary trisomic types of
Datura stramonium. Beneath each of these trisomic capsules is a diagram
of the extra

chromosome found in that type with the numbers used to

designate

two ends.

its

(Courtesy of Dr. A. F. Blakeslee.)

Trisomies

421

genes that affect the gametophyte would show this unbalance,
for the specific effect of a gene that controls the shape of a sporo-

phytic structure such as a capsule would be the same in the

gametophyte whether it was present twice as frequently as other
genes or merely as frequently.
Since very few gametophyte
genes have been identified, therefore, we must look merely for a
general effect rather than for a specific one in the gametophyte.
This general effect is often expressed, at least in part, in viability, for n -\- 1

gametophytes on the whole do not survive as well
This lowered viability, furthermore,
is usually more apparent on the male than on the female side.
The reason for this is not too clear, but the loss oi n -\- 1 microgametophytes is at least in part the failure of such pollen tubes
in competition with normal pollen tubes.
This low viability on
the male side is extreme in Datura, where probably no n + 1
microgametophytes function.
If specific, known genes are present on the chromosome that is
in the trisomic condition, the ratios that they will yield will
differ from the normal (Fig. 116).
One of the best-known examples is the inheritance of the recessive gene eyeless in Drosophila melanogaster.
If a triplo-IV fly with three dominant
alleles of the gene eyeless is crossed with a normal fly homozygous for eyeless ey, the Fi will be normal, wild-type Ey ey and
triplo-IV, wild-type Ey Ey ey. If a normal Fi fly is testcrossed
to a normal eyeless, the offspring will be half wild type and half
eyeless. When a triplo-IV Fi fly is crossed with a normal eyeless, however, the offspring will segregate into flve wild type
The eyeless will be normal as will two of the
to one eyeless.
as normal n gametophytes.

but the remaining three wild-type

five wild type,

trisomic.

A 5

:

flies

will be

1 ratio is typical of a testcross of a trisomic

with two dominant genes and one recessive gene to a normal,
homozygous recessive. Of course, if the trisomic bears only one

dominant allele, the ratio in the offspring will be 1 1, and it will
not be possible to detect the trisomic condition from the breed:

ing ratios.

The actual ratio which will be obtained in plants, however,

may differ from this because of the elimination of some of the
trisomic types in the gametophyte.

It will also

be disturbed if

crossing over occurs between the locus tested and the centromere,
a possibility which does not occur in the study of the eyeless

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

422
gene.

If a normal, recessive female plant is crossed with a male

which

is

trisomic and has two dominant and one recessive al-

leles, the elimination of n -j- 1

male gametes will change the ratio

to 2 wild type

If the

:

1 recessive.

Orientation of

Gametes

trivalent

female is the trisomic type

Offspring of

Phenotype of

Backcross

Offspring

A

Trisomic

dominant

Normal
dominant

Normal
dominant
a

Trisomic

I

dominant

Trisomic

dominant

Normal

a
I

t

recessive

Fig. 116.
Inheritance in a trisomic with the genetic constitution AAa.
The three possible orientations of this trisomic at metaphase (first column)
and the six possible gametes that result (second column). The third col-

umn shows the genotypes and the fourth column the phenotypes formed
when an organism with this trivalent is backcrossed to the recessive.
ratio of 5 dominant

:

1

A

recessive would be found.

and the male the normal recessive, the elimination of some of
the n + 1 female gametophytes and gametes will reduce the percentage of trisomic types in comparison with the percentage
found for eyeless where there is no elimination. The actual ratio
will depend upon the percentage of gametophytes eliminated and
will vary between 2:1, where all n + 1 gametes are eliminated,
to 5
1, where there is no elimination.
Although we have assumed so far that the extra chromosome
is identical with one of the normal chromosomes in a genome, this
:

Nondisjunction

423

need not necessarily be so. In fact, Blakeslee has found three
types of trisomies in Datura. The type we have just described
has one normal chromosome in excess so that one pair of homologues is represented by three members. This type is frequently
In Datura, the primary trisomic
called a primary trisomic.
Rolled has the 1-2 chromosome present three times instead of
twice.

If two of these homologous chromosomes were to undergo

reciprocal translocation at about the centromere, two new chromosomes would be formed which would be 1-1 and 2-2. If now
a trisomic was formed which had two normal 1-2 chromosomes
plus this new 1-1 chromosome, this trisomic would be different

and in the resulting phenotype from the normal
primary trisomic. These new trisomic types are known as secondary trisomies. In Datura, the primary trisomic Rolled (1-2)
has two corresponding secondaries, Polycarpic (1*1) and Sugarloaf (2-2).
If we remember our rule of part-by-part pairing,
metaphase configurations of a secondary trisomic with complete terminalization of chiasmata will include some circles of
three chromosomes.
In tertiary trisomies the extra chromosome arose by a reciprocal translocation between two nonhomologous chromosomes.
in its pairing

Nondisjunction

Now that we have discussed both monosomic and trisomic
types,

it

may well be asked how they originate.

They appear

to arise from an irregularity at a cell division such that the

two homologous chromosomes become included in the same
daughter nucleus instead of being distributed one to each daughter nucleus. This distribution usually occurs at meiosis but may,
as we have pointed out, occur at a somatic mitosis, producing
chromosomal chimeras.
Should the chromosomes fail to pair at the first meiotic division, should they not form chiasmata, or should the chiasmata
slip completely off the ends, the two chromosomes will not move
on to the equator as a bivalent, but as two separate univalents.
As univalents, each homologue is independent of the other, and
can go to either pole, and it is purely a matter of chance whether
one goes to one pole and the other to the opposite pole or whether
both go to one pole, leaving the other pole without any member
of that homologous pair. Thus two of the spores or gametes will

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

424

+ 1 and two will be n — 1.

This abnormal behavior, as the
result of which the members of a homologous pair fail to sepabe n

members become incorporated into

rate normally so that both

one of the daughter nuclei while the other daughter nucleus has
neither,

course,

is

known

as

nondisjunction.

It

actually results,

of

from nonconjugation.

chromosomes in Drosophila
melanog aster, each gamete should have four chromosomes if
Since one of the pairs in the
meiosis is normal and regular.
female consists of two X chromosomes, each egg should have
chromosome. Any other result indicates
one and only one
some irregularity in the meiotic system. Such irregularities do
occur, although not with any great frequency, and, when they do,
Since

there

four

are

pairs

of

X

nondisjunction results.

When nondisjunction of the X chromosome occurs, either the
two X chromosomes remain in the egg or they both pass into the
polar body, leaving the egg with no sex chromosome. If both
remain in the egg, such eggs will have three autosomes and two
chromosomes. They can be fertilized by either an X chromosome-bearing sperm or by a sperm that has a Y chromosome.
If a sperm with an X chromosome unites with such an egg, the
resulting individual will have three pairs of autosomes, as in
chromosomes inthe normal diploid fly, but will have three
stead of two. A fly with such a chromosomal complement is a
chromosome. The chrotriplo-X fly and is trisomic for the

X

X

X

mosomal unbalance

in

this

case

is

so

great,

however, that

triplo-X flies normally die before reaching the adult stage. If
chromosomes is fertilized by a sperm that
an egg with two

X

bears a

Y chromosome, the resulting individual wdll have four

chromosomes like any normal female, but will have a
Y chromosome in addition. It will behave as a normal female.
If the two X chromosomes go into the polar body leaving none
pairs of

in the egg, the egg will carry only the three autosomes.

egg is fertilized by a sperm with an

If this

X chromosome, the indi-

vidual which results will have three pairs of autosomes and one
chromosome. Such a fly will be a male, but it will be sterile.

X

If the egg deficient in

an

X chromosome

is

fertilized

by a Y

chromosome-bearing sperm, the resulting zygote will have three
pairs of autosomes and a Y chromosome, but it will have no
chromosome proves fatal to this
chromosome. The lack of an

X

X

425

Nondisjunction

and such flies die when only a few cell divisions past the

type,

zygote stage.
If

known genes in the X chromosome are traced in nondis-

junction, the genetic ratios will be different from those expected
if

meiosis is normal.

In fact, it was the unexpected appearance

of certain phenotypes that led to the discovery of nondisjunc-

tion in Drosophila

by Bridges in

1916.

As demonstrated fre-

quently, a white-eyed female when mated with a red-eyed male

normally produces only red-eyed females and white-eyed males.
chromosomes each bearing a iv gene remain
If, however, two
in the egg, and if this egg is fertilized by a Y-bearing sperm from
a red-eyed male, the offspring will be a female, but will be whitechromosomes were derived from its
eyed because both its
female parent (Fig. 117). If a nondisjunctional egg which is

X

X

X chromosome

is fertilized by a sperm containwhich
is located a it'+ gene, the offing an
chromosome on
chrospring will be male and will have red eyes because its
mosome was introduced from its red-eyed father. These whiteeyed females and red-eyed males are abnormal tjqoes and sugNormally, in Drogest that something unusual has occurred.

deficient for an

X

X

sophila, a male receives his only

X chromosome from his mother.

Males that result from nondisjunctional eggs, however, receive
their X chromosome from their father and hence are known as
patroclinous males.

Similarly, females normally receive one

chromosome from each parent.

X

The white-eyed females that

from a nondisjunctional egg are called matroclinous fechromosomes from their
males because they receive both their
result

X

mother.

found in both the sex chromosomes
and the autosomes of other animals and in many plants. In
fact, probably all monosomies and trisomies have arisen from
Nondisjunction

nondisjunction.

is

also

Failure of pairing at zygotene or failure of

chiasmata probably are responsible for nondisjunction in most
plants and animals; but in those in which the chromosomes are
heterozygous for reciprocal translocations, nondisjunction may
arise from other causes.
A good example of nondisjunction not resulting from failure
of pairing or of chiasmata is found in Oenothera Lamarckiana.
In Oenothera certain species are permanently heterozygous for

one or more translocations so that at meiosis their chromosomes

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

426

White eyed

^

Red eyed cf

K
W--

-'W

+ -•

X

Sperm

Sperm
Nondisjunction (l):

-w

W--

Triplo-X: usually lethal

Polar body

White female (XXY)

Sperm

Sperm

Nondisjunction (2):

None

Red male; sterile
Fig. 117.

Lethal

Diagram showing the result of nondisjunction of the X chro-

mosome of Drosophila melanogaster in the female of a cross between a
white-eyed female and a red-eyed male. The normal result of such a cross
is red-eyed females and white-eyed males, but as a result of nondisjunction white-eyed females and red-eyed males are produced.

Nondisjunction

427

number of which
depend upon the number and position of the translocations for
which they are heterozygous. For example, in Oe. Lamarckiana,
the chromosomes are arranged at meiosis in the form of one pair
regularly form rings or circles, the size and

and a circle of twelve.
bears no translocation.

The pair represents a chromosome that
The circle is composed of one set of

chromosomes whose ends are designated as 3-4, 5-8, 7-6, 9-10,
11-12, and 13-14 and one set whose ends are 3-14, 5-6, 7-4,
12-10, 11-8, and 13-9. Terminalization is complete in Oenothera,

velana

(l

21

I

U\

l3

14

71

\j

''

Fig. 118.

17

4|

I

el

15

81

111 I2I

110

9I

113 141

I

18 111

112 101

19 131

\j \j

Kj

\j KJ

16

51

114

31

gaudens

Arrangement of the chromosomes

at the first meiotic

meta-

phase of Oenothera Lamarckiana showing one pair and a circle of twelve
chromosomes. Six of the chromosomes belong to the velans complex and
normally always go to one pole; the other six belong to the gaudens complex and go to the opposite pole.
result

of a

These two complexes have arisen as the

number of reciprocal translocations.

and normally the chromosomes are arranged so that alternate
ones go to the same pole, and therefore always remain together.
Such a group of chromosomes is called a complex; and to facilitate

discussion

about the various interchange types, the dif-

Thus the first group of chro-

ferent complexes are given names.

mosomes above, along with one of the 1-2 chromosomes, is called
the velans complex; the second group with one of the 1-2 chromo-

somes is the gaudens complex. Because of the position and number of the interchanges between these two complexes, they form
one pair and a

circle of

twelve

when they are together in the

same plant.
The chromosomes are so oriented that the ones of the velans
complex go to one pole while the gaudens chromosomes go to the
other (Fig. 118). Apparently both the velans and gaudens complexes carry lethal genes or small deficiencies which are different in the

both velans

•

chromosomes of the two complexes. Therefore,
velans and gaudens gaudens forms are homozy•

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

428

gous for a lethal gene or deficiency and therefore do not survive.

The velans

•

gaudens type, however, carries two lethals, but they

are not the same.
it

This type is not homozygous for either lethal,

does not die in an early stage, and

it

produces Oe. La-

mar ckiana, a perpetual, true-breeding heterozygote.
In Oe. Laniarckiana, alternate chromosomes normally pass to
opposite poles in a perfectly orderly manner.

Catcheside and
Ford have shown, however, that if there is any irregularity in the
way they arrange themselves on the metaphase plate, nondisjunction may result.

In the simplest case, three adjacent chro-

mosomes of the circle are oriented towards one pole at metaphase
and pass to that pole at anaphase, as follows

mosomes
1-2

1-2

(the velans chro-

are in bold-face type)

7 6

(3-4

— 65 —

5-8

4-7

1112

8-11

12-10

1314

10-9

9-13

14-3)

This arrangement produces one gamete with eight chromo-

somes (seven velans and one gaudens)

The six-chromosome gamete will
chromosomes will survive.

die,

;

the other has only

six.

but the one with eight

If this gamete mated with a gaudens

gamete, it would produce a trisomic of Oe. Lamarckiana, which

would show one extra chromosome tied in to the circle (Fig.
If it mated with a velans gamete, the chances are that
119).
the zygote would be lethal.
It is possible, however, that the
extra gaudens chromosome would carry the dominant allele of
the lethal velans gene. If so, we should expect five normal pairs
plus a figure-of-five consisting of two pairs tied together by a
univalent (Fig. 119). Similar configurations would take place
if the simple nondisjunction resulted in a gamete with seven
gaudens and one velans chromosomes, only now the large ring
would form if this gamete united with one bearing the velans
complex. Other more complicated types of nondisjunction could
also result from abnormal orientation in the chromosome circles,
and some very interesting configurations would be found in the
trisomic offspring of such plants.

Somatic Nondisjunction

429

Other causes for the origin of trisomies are also possible.
Rhoades, for example, found a strain of maize in which an extra

chromosome was present consisting of the short arm of chromosome V, broken in such a fashion that the centromere was at the
end of this centric fragment chromosome. A terminal centromere is unstable and produces a number of abnormalities. Oc-

g3

V2

V3

Fig. 119.

gS

g4

V*

V,

^'

v«

Two of the trisomies of Oenothera Lamarckiana. The desig-

nation of chromosomal ends by letters rather than numbers was a temporary expedient of the British geneticists before their material and the

American material could be compared and similar numbers adopted for
Above, pairing in plant resulting from union of a gamete with
seven velans and one gaudens chromosomes with a normal gaudens gamete.
Below, pairing in a plant from the same eight-chromosome gamete and a
(Redrawn from Catcheside in the Journal of Genetics.)
velans gamete.
both.

casionally,
in this
tical

it

divides transversely instead of longitudinally, and

way it can produce a secondary trisomic with two iden-

arms.

Somatic Nondisjunction
If a red-flowered plant

disjunction of the

is

heterozygous for the gene C, non-

chromosome that carries the C gene during

somatic divisions of the cells of the epidermis of the developing
petals

may produce cells with the constitution CCc and others

with only the

c gene. All cells

that develop from the

first cell

that lacks the C gene will be white instead of red; white patches

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

430

appear on the otherwise red petals and will be wedgeshaped. The size of these white patches will depend upon the
stage in the formation of the flower at which the nondisjuncIf the flower was young, the white sectorial
tion occurred.

will then

chimera will be large, but if

it

was nearly

developed at the time the nondisjunction took

Lawrence
has reported several such chimeras in Dahlia
variabilis. Wedge-shaped sectorial chimeras
have been observed in Nemesia strwnosa
(Fig. 120) and probably result from somatic
nondisjunction.
In Nemesia, some purple
flowers have white sectors as do some orangecolored flowers, showing that apparently both
the C and the
gene are on chromosomes
place, the white area will be small.

A purple

undergo somatic nondisjunction.
In a very few white flowers of plants hetero-

Nemesia

zygous for bm, the gene for blue-margin, a

showing

blue chimera

two relatively large
and one small sec-

of the flower.

that can
Fig. 120.

flower

of

strumosa

torial

chimeras

in

the

ontogeny of
flower than

the

stage

the

aberrations that pro-

duced the other
chimeras.

with Fig.

Compare
10.

Organisms with More Than One Extra Chro-

mosome
Since a plant or animal might have one
extra chromosome, we might wonder whether
it

could have more than one.

if

a plant could be trisomic for one pair of

are 2n -f- 1 -|- 1

Plants with 2n

Theoretically,

chromosomes, every chromosome pair might
In Datura
be in the trisomic condition.
plants have been found which are trisomic
Such double
for two pairs of chromosomes.
trisomies have the formula 2n -{- 1 -{- 1, and
they are generally less viable than simple
trisomies.

mosomes

lips

re-

sulting probably
from somatic nondisjunction. The
small chimera resulted probably from
nondisjunction
a
which occurred at a
later

was found on the upper

Plants trisomic for three chro-

+ 1, but are practically nonexistent.

+ 2 chromosomes are tetrasomic for one of the

chromosomes. They show a greater exaggeration of the characters determined by their genes and a greater unbalance than
the corresponding trisomic, and they are generally weaker and
less viable.

In Datura four primary chromosomes can be trans-

Questions and Problems

mitted as n

431

+ 1 types through the pollen, and three have re-

sulted in tetrasomics when a trisomic was selfed.

somic was selfed,
like itself,

When a tetra-

produced normal 2n plants, tetrasomics
the corresponding primary trisomies, and also secit

When crossed as both a male and a female

ondary trisomies.

with normal diploid plants,

produced diploids and trisomies
but no tetrasomics.
Apparently n + 2 gametophytes are inviable either as males or females.
it

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Assume that A is dominant over a and that a plant is trisomic for
chromosome bearing the a locus. Assume that n + 1 pollen is not
viable. What would be the ratio of A to a in the 2n and 2n + 1 offspring
from a self-fertilization of plants whose genotypes are: (1) AAA; (2)
the

AAa;
2.

Aaa;

(3)

(4)

aaa?

What would be the offspring in question 1 if all the pollen and eggs

were viable?
3.

the

What would be the offspring in question 1 if only 30 per cent of

n+ 1 eggs an^ none of the n + 1 pollen were viable

4. In Datura, the genes for purple (P) and white (p) are in the "18"
end of the 17-18 (Poinsettia) chromosome. This chromosome is rarely
transmitted through the pollen and to only 27.7 per cent of the eggs in
primary trisomies. What would be the ratio of purple to white from self-

pollinations of PPp

and Ppp plants, and what would be the results of

backcrosses in both directions to pp plants?

(Neglect the fact that in

Datura, n -f- 1 gametes are transmitted through the female in greater
proportion when the male is another plant than when the trisomic is selfpollinated.)
5.

In plants of Prime Type 1 of Datura, the following extra chromo-

somes are present producing trisomies:
{d)

1*18;

(e)

17*17.

(a)

1*2;

(6) 7*7;

(c)

19*20;

Which types (primary, secondary, or tertiary)

would they produce, and what configurations would they produce in a
Prime Type 1 plant?
6.

If

the extra chromosomes in question 5 were present in Prime

Type 2 plants, which types do they produce (primary, secondary, or
tertiary), and what configurations would they produce?
7. How, by means of trisomies, could a newly discovered gene be
placed in its particular chromosome?
Arrange the following in order from the greatest to least genie
unbalance which they produce, assuming that the same chromosome is
8.

involved in each case:

primary trisomic; (b) secondary trisomic;
(c) tetrasomic; (d) monosomic.
Explain.
(a)

Aneuploids and Nondisjunction

432

Could attached-X flies produce trisomies? Explain. Could other
translocations produce nondisjunctions and aneuploids? Explain.
9.

10. If a

white-eyed female produced as the result of primary nondis-

junction were crossed with a wild-type male, what offspring would be
possible ? Explain.
11.

Show by diagrams how nondisjunction of the fourth chromosome

of Drosophila melanogaster might occur, and how triplo-IV and haplo-IV

types might result.

What are nullosomic types? How could they be produced?
Would you expect to find nullosomic plants or animals? Explain.
12.

A>'/'^^v
'^^^l^
.o^

Chapter 26

HAPLOIDS AND AUTOPOLYPLOIDS
Chromosome aberrations involving segments of a chromosome
or individual whole chromosomes are by no means the only aber-

many

and some animals differ from the
by possessing only one genome or chromosomal set, or by consisting of three or more. Those forms with
only one chromosome set are haploids (or monojploids) whereas
those that have three or more complete genomes are euploids or,
more frequently, polyploids. Organisms with three complete sets
of chromosomes are triploids; those with four, five, six, and eight
rations,

for

plants

regular diploid type

are knov»'n, respectively, as tetraploids, pentaploids, hexaploids,

and octoploids. If an organism consists of more than two genomes, its genomes may be alike or dissimilar. If they are all
alike, the polyploid is an autopolyploid, but if two or more different genomes are present, the organism is an allopolyploid.
Thus we have the terms autotriploid, autotetraploid, allotetraploid, and similar designations. When dealing with many other
biological phenomena, we often find it easier to designate categories than to place plants and animals into them as simply as
we should prefer to do. The situation is the same for polyploids, for some organisms are not easily classified as either
autopolyploids or allopolyploids, and some may actually be
autopolyploid for some chromosomes and allopolyploids for
In general, however, the designations are useful and
others.
widely used.

Haploids

Haploid organisms contain only one genome or set of chromosomes. In some organisms certain phases of the life cycle
are regularly haploid. These phases are adjusted to the haploid
condition, and there is nothing abnormal about their behavior,
It is
for the normal condition is to behave the way they do.
only
with
develops
only when tissue that is normally diploid
433

Haploids and Autopolyploids

434

one genome that there is anything abnormal about the haploid
state.

In Chapter 4, we pointed out that the gametophyte generation

normally haploid.

In some animals, such as the
bees and related insects, the females are always diploid whereas
of plants

is

the males are haploid.

Since this

is

a normal condition, and

since the males produce normal, viable sperm, the meiotic di-

visions

which occur in the production of germ cells in animals

must be modified in such a way that the haploid number already
is not further reduced.
In the adjustment which this
organism makes the first meiotic division is an abortive affair,

present

normal haploid secondary spermatocyte and a
small mass of cytoplasm without a nucleus. The second meiotic
division is of the equational type and produces cells which mature

resulting in a

into haploid spermatozoa.

In organisms in which a generation that is normally diploid is
produced with the haploid number of chromosomes, there is no
such adjustment to the haploid condition, and no modification

mechanism has been developed of such nature
that large numbers of haploid products of meiosis will result. A
of the meiotic

haploid plant or animal can merely be regarded, so far as
meiotic behavior

is

concerned, as an organism which

somic for all its chromosome pairs.

is

its

mono-

Each chromosome behaves

monosomic and is normally independent of all the others.
There is no zygotene pairing, as no chromosome has a partner,
so that each chromosome moves on to the equator as a univalent
and passes to either pole at random and completely independently
of the others.
Theoretically, the chance that any given chromosome will pass to a certain pole is % and that all the chromosomes will pass to the same pole is ^ X H X !^2
to n
terms, where n represents the number of univalent chromosomes.
In other words, the frequency of spores or gametes with n chromosomes will be 1/2''. Quite obviously, the greater the number
like a

•

of

•

•

chromosomes, the smaller the chance of including all in one
Since gametes or gametophytes that have fewer than n

cell.

chromosomes are frequently inviable, such haploids are highly
sterile.

Although theoretically all the chromosomes at the first meiotic
division of haploids should be univalents, they are not always

Haploids

435

Sorghum plants have been found with only ten chromosomes instead of the usual number, twenty, and with ten univalents in most cells. At anaphase all possible types of separation were found from five to each pole to ten to one and none
to the other, with the four to six and three to seven distributions
very common. In these plants, however, occasionally one, two, or
so.

three bivalents were observed in a nucleus, and about 10 per

cent of the nuclei had bivalents.

In pepper haploids twelve uni-

valents were often observed (Fig. 121), but in other nuclei there

were one to six bivalent associations. It has even been reported
that in three plants of Triticum monococcum there is no chromosome pairing in prophase but that at diakinesis, the chromosomes may be in chains of varying lengths up to the whole seven

chromosomes.
in only

These configurations are lost by metaphase and

about 2 per cent of the microsporocytes are there any

bivalents.

Where the haploid condition has become established as a regular feature of one phase of the life cycle there is not necessarily

any advantage
fact,

in such

or disadvantage in the haploid condition.

organisms there

In

may be no resemblance in any

way between the haploid and diploid generations, that is, one is
not merely a small or a large version of the other.

In some of

the lower plants the haploid and diploid generations are identical; in others

they are very different.

In some lines of evolu-

more prominently than
the diploid, but in other lines the diploid stage became more
prominent and the haploid generation became extremely small
and inconspicuous. Here, however, the haploid is not merely a
feeble version of the diploid, but it has become established as
something that is different in kind from the diploid generation.
However, when a haploid develops as an aberrant form of a
stage that, is normally diploid it is usually somewhat less robust,
less vigorous, and smaller than the corresponding diploid, and
tion the haploid generation developed

frequently very much inferior.

Miintzing, for example, has found

Hordeum vulgare, Phleum pratense, Dactylis glomerata, and Poa pratensis, and he says that

haploids of Triticum vulgare,

they are all "rather conspicuous by their small dimensions."

In

pepper hybrids, on the other hand, Christensen and Bamford
report that it was very difficult to distinguish the haploid plants

436

Fig. 121.

Haploids and Autopolyploids

Diploid and haploid peppers: (a) and (b), haploid ^nd diploid

plants; (c) and (d), stomata from haploid and diploid plants; (e), diakinesis
in a haploid

showing twelve univalents;

(/),

diakinesis in a diploid, show-

ing twelve bivalents; ig), late diakinesis in the haploid with chromosomes
associating in pairs. Note that the haploid is generally smaller and has

smaller stomata and guard cells than the diploid.

(Courtesy of Dr. R.

Bamford from Christensen and Bamford in the Journal of Heredity.)

Haploids

437

by their size, flowers, or leaves. The haploid, though, had smaller
stomata, very poor pollen, and smaller fruits, and rarely proHaploid sporophytes have been found in tobacco,
tomatoes, maize, rye, Datura, wheat, sorghum, and other plants.
Haploid animals that are normally diploid have occasionally
been produced by drastic changes in their environment.
duced seeds.

Although haploids are highly sterile, they are theoretically
not completely so, for no matter how many chromosomes they
have, a certain percentage of their eggs and sperm should contain a haploid set of chromosomes. In a plant that is normally
a true diploid, no gametophyte with less than a haploid set of
chromosomes will survive. If an egg with one complete haploid

by a sperm which also has n chromosomes, a normal diploid organism would be produced, just as it
would if two normal, haploid gametes from a diploid organism
should unite. However, this diploid organism that comes .from
a haploid, except for possible gene mutations, will be homozyset should be fertilized

gous for all its genes.

Thus, if haploids could be produced at

will, homozygous diploid

organisms could be produced with rela-

tive ease

and much more readily than by a program

of in-

breeding.

gave rise to the haploid was not a true
diploid, but an amphidiploid such as we describe in the next
If the "diploid" that

chapter, the offspring would be different.

From a haploid of

Triticum vulgare pollinated by a diploid wheat. Sears obtained

had 40 to 42 chromosomes. Only two of
the 42-chromosome plants had all bivalents; the other eleven
had one or two univalents. Four of the eleven plants had one or
two trivalents, and one of the plants with a trivalent and one
other had a ring of four chromosomes. One of the 41- and one
of the 42-chromosome plants, when selfed, produced nullosomics
among the offspring. Such 2/1 — 2 plants could not be found in
a normal diploid.
Numerous attempts have been made to produce haploid animals, and various methods to induce an egg to begin development when it has only one nucleus have been successful. Usually,
however, the haploid individuals which resulted are abnormal and
One individual of the European
survive only a few weeks.
newt, Triton taeniatus, survived to the one hundredth day of its
thirteen plants which

Haploids and Autopolyploids

438
life

when unfortunately it was drowned.

This animal, produced

by Baltzer and Fankhauser from an egg fragment, was dwarfed
and slightly anemic. Its reactions were very slow, it had difficulty feeding, and its metamorphosis began much later than in
normal diploid animals.
Fankhauser also raised a haploid individual of the Japanese
newt, Triturus pyrrhogaster, to the fifty-ninth day.

This hap-

was produced by tying a loop of fine hair around the egg
shortly after the entrance of the sperm and tightening the loop
Usually one of the fraguntil the egg was cut into two parts.
ments survives and consists of a nucleus with about half the
cytoplasm, thus preserving the nucleocytoplasmic ratio more
faithfully than by methods that merely inactivate one nucleus
of a fertilized egg and leave the full amount of cytoplasm. The
loid

fragment that developed into this individual conIt developed more
tained the paternal set of chromosomes.
slowly than the normal diploid from the very beginning, and by
the ninth day just showed signs of the tail fin and of pigment
particular

cells,

although in the diploid a narrow fin surrounded the tail and

melanophores were scattered over the dorsal side and the flank
This retardation in growth became more and
of the body.
more pronounced, and after a while the head and anterior part
of the trunk became distended with fluid in the tissues and body
cavity (edema).
The head also became bent to the left and
ventral sides. The blood was anemic, and the animal became

weaker and slower to respond to stimuli. On the fifty-ninth day,
when it was obviously near death, the haploid and its diploid
There is no doubt that this animal
controls were preserved.
was a haploid, for a piece of the tail tip was removed on the
nineteenth day and examined cytologically. Diploid and haploid
larvae are shown in Fig. 122. The dividing cells of haploids show
twelve chromosomes, the haploid number (Fig. 123).
We have pointed out that the cells of the gametophyte generation of plants are haploid.

Since the starch food (endosperm)

gymnosperms consists of a mass of gametophyte
cells, such tissue should be haploid.
K. and H. J. Sax used this
tissue to study the number and morphology of the chromosomes
in a cytotaxonomic survey of the conifers.
They find that the
in the seeds of

root tips of conifers are not suitable material for a study of

chromosomes because the chromosomes are long with the arms

(a) Haploid
Haploids in the newt, Triturus pyrrhogaster.
{left) and diploid larvae; the haploid was developed from a cold-treated
(b) Another
egg; larvae 18 days old before amputation of the tail tips,
cold-induced haploid larva (left) and its control, 31 days old. The haploid
shows dwarfing, edema, and microcephaly. Photographs X8- (Courtesy of

Fig. 122.

Dr. G. Fankhauser in the Quarterly Review of Biology.)

Somatic chromosomes at metaphase from the epidermal cells
X760. (Courtesy of
Dr. G. Fankhauser.)
Fig. 123.

of the tailfins of haploid (left) and diploid larvae.

439

Haploids and Autopolyploids

440

usually more or less at right angles to the metaphase plate,

making polar views practically useless, whereas side views are of
little

^^v^ ^
^^^^/fg

i

jfy VV^
1 y^^^
i\

r^^^"*^^^/
^^*^
V*^^

r

Fig.

124.

,

Vk^**

Chromosomes from the

value

number
^°

of

large

because the

2n

chromosomes

is

that

the

individ-

^^^ chromosomes become obIn the endosperm,
scured.

^^ ^^e other hand, only

n

endosperm of Finns Thunbergiana
The first
(left) and Thuja onentalis.
has twelve and the second eleven
chromosomes.
(Redrawn from Sax
^nd S^x in the Journal of the Arnold

chromosomes are present, cell
divisions are numerous, and
^^^ chromosomes are readily

Arboretum.)

polar

,

,

observed

is

also

.

.

,

side

or

by

the

smear

(Fig.

124).

The

views

technique

method

..,

m either

very useful for the Cycadales when female

cones are available.
Autotriploids
Autotriploids are organisms that have three identical genomes

put it somewhat differently, are primary trisomies for all
Therefore, when they undergo the meiotic
their chromosomes.
or, to

we should expect the same configurations for all their
chromosomes that we find for one of the chromosomes in a

divisions

primary trisomic.
Autotriploids are rare in animals but have been found in a
great many plants.

Drosophila triploid females with three sets

of autosomes and three

X chromosomes are not very different in

general appearance from diploid females with only two sets of

autosomes and two

X chromosomes.

In general, however, they

somewhat more robust and have larger cells in the wings.
Triploids of the male sex are not true males. They are discussed
are

in

Chapter 29.
This generally greater, robustness

is

a

rather

constant at-

and is often revealed in plants by a somewhat larger size, more vigorous growth, and greater ability to
become adapted to a wider environment. Navashin's study of
He found
triploids in Crepis affords an interesting example.
that triploids of three species had increased dimensions of both
cells and cell organs.
The fruits were enlarged and the entire
tribute of triploids

Autotriploids

441

was somewhat larger than normal; fertility was low
and the pollen was largely bad. Triploids are usually highly
sterile, as a matter of fact, and are not self-perpetuating sexually
in spite of their greater vigor. However, if they can reproduce
asexually, as by rhizomes, they may establish permanent clones
plant

that have a decided advantage in competition with their diploid
relatives.

Fig. 125. Photomicrographs of first metaphase in a triploid Tradescantia
showing trivalent configurations. At left, five Y-shaped trivalents and a

ring-and-rod (towards bottom of picture). At right, two chains of three
chromosomes are clearly visible. In the upper left corner of the picture at
the left are two small centric fragments.

If an autotriploid can be regarded as merely an organism that
is

trisomic for

all

its

chromosomes,

it

should form the same

kinds of meiotic configurations for all its chromosomes that the

primary trisomic does for its single triplicated chromosome.
Sometimes it should have only trivalents, at other times it should
have some bivalents and univalents in place of some trivalents.
Perhaps, very rarely, it should have only bivalents and univalents,

although this would hardly be likely to occur in an auto-

some

were present. The
trivalents should exhibit the same rods, Y's, and other configurations found in Fig. 114, although the type in which all three
triploid unless

special circumstances

chromosomes are joined at one end is rare. Plants with such
configurations have often been found (Fig. 125). A good example is an autotriploid of Tradescantia hracteata, which was

Haploids and Autopolyploids

442

He found that about 90 per cent of

studied by King in 1933.

the figures were trivalents with only about 10 per cent bivalents

and univalents.
Because of the presence of an extra set of chromosomes, it is
easy to understand why triploids are so highly sterile. As we
pointed out for trisomies, whether the configuration is a trivalent
or a bivalent and a univalent, two of the daughter cells at the
first meiotic division receive two of the homologues whereas the
other cell receives one.
lent)

segregates

Obviously, if each trivalent (or univa-

independently

of

every

other,

all

types

of

gametes from n to 2n should result and should be distributed
in the form of a frequency curve, with the n and 2n types least
frequent and the intermediate unbalanced types most frequent.

As in the haploid, the frequency of the types should be expressed
by the expansion of the binominal (Yo + %)", where n is the
number of chromosomes in a genome. Triploids are known
in which lagging of chromosomes, dicentric chromatids and chromatid bridges, fragments, and other chromosome aberrations are
common.
Triploidy in higher animals is not common, although triploids
are known among vertebrates in frogs and salamanders. Fankhauser studied 100 larvae of the newt,

Triturus

viridescens.

Chromosome counts from the epidermis of the tail fin showed
that 96 were diploids with 22 chromosomes, whereas 4 had 33

chromosomes and were undoubtedly triploids. A similar examination of 134 larvae of the salamander, Eurycea bislineata,
showed that 119 were diploid, 13 were triploid, and 2 were tetraploid.

Endosperm
In discussing the life cycle of plants we pointed out that the
gametophyte generation is haploid and the sporophyte diploid.

There

is

triploid.

one

tissue,

This tissue

however, that
is

a

is

regularly and normally

new one in the evolution of plants,

found only in the highest and most recently developed
group of plants, the angiosperms. This tissue is the endosperm
for

it is

not the megagametophyte as it is in gymnosperms but a structure that arises during double fertilization
by a fusion of one sperm nucleus with the two polar nuclei in
of the seed, which

is

the center of the embryo sac.

This tissue is an important one for

Endosperm
the angiosperm seed and

is

443

interesting genetically

from several

angles.

In maize, several genes are present which affect the endo-

One gene, Y, produces a yellow color in the endosperm
whereas its allele, y, produces no color. If a yy female is crossed
with a FF male, the embryo in the seed is genotypically Yy.
The endosperm is Yyy having received a F gene in a sperm nusperm.

cleus and two y genes in the two polar nuclei.

Since the F gene

affects the endosperm, the color of the endosperm will be yellow.

This is actually only an example of a gene that exerts its influence on the endosperm instead of on part of the mature plant.
It

happens that the

F gene is dominant over two y genes, but

this is not true of all genes affecting the

endosperm.

This situ-

was formerly considered to be an example of the direct influence of the male. As
such, this phenomenon was termed xenia.
The same result is found for the sugary gene (su) in maize and
its allele (Su) for starchy.
If a row of sweet corn (susu) is
ation

is

interesting historically because

it

planted next to one of field corn (SuSu), pollen from the field
corn may blow on to the silks of the sweet corn.

Because Su is

dominant over two doses of su, and because these genes affect
the endosperm, seeds which are fertilized by this pollen will
have starchy rather than sugary endosperm. In this example,
xenia is again observed because of the dominance relations, for
if one dominant gene were dominant over one recessive and not
two, the endosperm would show the character of the female
parent instead of the male.

The importance

endosperm has also been shown in
certain hybrids where the abnormal development of the endosperm will cause the hybrid seed to fail to develop. Brink and
Cooper showed that seeds of the hybrid Nicotiana rustica X ^•
glutinosa abort early in development whereas those of N. rustica
X A^. tahacum usually abort at a later stage of development,
although a few develop to the stage where they can germinate.
A comparison of these two hybrids with seeds of N. rustica
shows that the embryo is probably viable in all three but complete or partial failure of the endosperm in the hybrids usually
interferes with the nourishment of the developing embryo. After
double fertilization the endosperm normally begins to develop
and apparently also secretes some growth-promoting substances
of the

Haploids and Autopolyploids

444

that diffuse into the surrounding tissues and regulate the

way

One of these developmental changes is the formation of a channel of conducting tissues in the integument and
megasporangium (nucellus), through which nutrients pass into
the growing embryo sac. In the hybrids, endosperm development
is slower, and this secretion is probably reduced in amount

they develop.

although it may also differ qualitatively.

Whatever may be the

cause, these conducting elements fail to develop in the hybrids.

At the same time, the megasporangium begins to grow.

This

structure always remains one-celled in N. rustica, but in the hy-

becomes several cells thick. The slow development of
the endosperm, accompanied by a hyperplasia of the megasporangium, results in a markedly lower endosperm/megasporangium ratio in the hybrids. In some hybrids the growth of the
megasporangium is so pronounced that this tissue completely
surrounds the endosperm; in others a gap remains in the megasporangium leaving an opening from the endosperm to the integument as in A^. rustica. When the embryos were in the eightto sixteen-cell stage, all seeds of N. rustica had this gap, as did
75 per cent of the seeds of N. rustica X ^- tahacuyn and only 26
per cent in A^. rustica X N. glutinosa. Apparently the nutrients
are cut off from the endosperm in practically all the glutinosa
brids

it

hybrids, with the result that practically all the developing ovules
collapse early.

In some of the tabacum hybrids, however, enough

nutrient material seems to reach the endosperm so that these

ovules attain a more advanced stage of development and even

develop occasionally into shrunken but germinable seeds. This
study reveals that the endosperm is an important structure and

sometimes may act as a barrier to hybridization between species.
The endosperm in this hybrid appears to divide normally, but its
whole development is slow.
Sterility in hybrids between barley and rye also results from
the failure of the endosperm to develop in normal fashion.
Thompson and Johnston found that such a cross was incompatible because of abnormal development of the endosperm in
the hybrid seed and particularly of the endosperm nuclei. Cooper
and Brink made a similar cross in which the seeds aborted completely from the fourth to the thirteenth day.
In this intergeneric hybrid, the primary endosperm nucleus often divides
somewhat later than normally, and subsequent behavior of the

Autotetraploids

445

endosperm nuclei is abnormal. The distribution of the chromosomes becomes very irregular, and the nuclei that result may
exhibit a considerable range of sizes and shapes. Cell walls fail
to form around the nuclei of the endosperm as they do about

The

forty-eight hours after fertilization in plants of barley.

whole endosperm tissue sooner or later disintegrates, and the
seeds thereupon collapse. The embryo itself is normal, although
retarded, but eventually dies of starvation.

havior of the endosperm in the hybrids

is

The peculiar bea secondary

effect,

resulting from abnormal development of the antipodal cells.

In

plants of the grass family, the antipodals enlarge greatly and

form a prominent tissue in the embryo sac that resembles secretory tissue. They appear to secrete something necessary for the
normal development of the endosperm for about twenty-eight
hours after fertilization.

In the hybrid, they

fail

to enlarge,

become dormant or almost so, and apparently fail to supply the
endosperm with substances necessary for its normal behavior.
The endosperm is abnormal and fails to supply the embryo with
its normal supply of food.
Autotetraploids
Autotetraploids are tetrasomic for all the chromosomes.

Al-

though probably most tetraploids are allotetraploids, autotetraploids have been found in nature and have been produced in the
experimental field. In general, they are slightly larger and more
robust than the corresponding diploids and are more adaptable
to different environm^ental conditions.
sterile as autotriploids,
sterile

They are not nearly so

but frequently they are somewhat more

than the diploids from which they were derived.

Since autotetraploids have their chromosomes in a tetrasomic
condition,

it is

to be expected that at least

some of their con-

figurations at metaphase would be quadrivalents.

Since, in zygo-

tene pairing, like parts normally pair and only two threads are
associated at any one place, a number of possibilities exist.
all

If

four threads of a tetrasomic group are tied in together at

zygotene, as in Fig. 126a, and if chiasmata form and terminalize,

the chromosomes will open out into a ring of four which re-

sembles in every

way the ring of four produced by reciprocal

Such a ring is often found at first metaphase. If
chiasmata fail to form in one of the arms (Fig. 127^), the con-

translocation.

Haploids and Autopolyploids

446

figuration will open out into a chain of four instead of a ring of

Pairing sometimes is so arranged that a ring bivalent

four.

is

produced with one chromosome tied in at each side, as in Fig.
1265.

one of the rod chromosomes

fails to be tied in by a
and rod trivalent plus a uniIf only two chiasmata form among the arms of the four

If

chiasma, the figure will be a ring
valent.

A

IQ

UN

Some of the configurations formed in a tetraploid when there are
Complete terminalization is assumed. The chromosomes are
shown at diplotene and (below) at the subsequent metaphase. Top line
Fig. 126.

four chiasmata.

from left to right (a), (b), and (c)

;

bottom line, (e), (/), (g).

homologous chromosomes, they may form a chain of three and a
univalent (Fig. 127c), two rod bivalents (Fig. 1276), or a ring
bivalent with two univalents (Fig. 127a). Other configurations
are also possible with two, three, or four chiasmata.
If no

chiasmata form, which is highly unlikely, four univalents result;

and if only one chiasma forms, the only possible configuration
is

a rod bivalent and two univalents.

In

many autotetraploids pairing relationships result in sev-

eral types of configurations in one cell

(Fig. 128).

Thus there

may be two or more types of quadrivalents along with bivalents,
univalents, and perhaps a trivalent.

Trivalents are rare in pure

447

Autotetraploids
autotetraploids

if

they are found.

Tradescantia affords some

good examples of quadrivalent formation in autotetraploids. Anderson and Sax have said that more than half the chromosomes
are in quadrivalents in autotetraploids in this genus and that

iin

1

I

i
^3C

Fig. 127.

Some of the configurations formed in a tetraploid when there

are fewer than four chiasmata.

Below each diplotene configuration is the

metaphase to be derived from it. Top line, (a), (b), (c)
bottom line, {g), (h), (?).
(e), (/)

;

middle line, (d),

they are usually in the form of chains or rings.

The chiasma

;

frequency per chromosome
the diploids, and almost
tetraploids.

all

is

lower in the tetraploids than in

the chiasmata are terminal in the

In T. virginiana some quadrivalents are twisted

around so as to resemble the number ''8," and usually the adjacent chromosomes in the quadrivalent pass to opposite poles. In

448

Haploids and Autopolyploids

the tetraploid form of Setcreasia brevifolia, another member of

was very similar to that
of Tradescantia virginiana.
The average number of quadrivalents per nucleus and the size and form of the metaphase configurations were very similar in the two species.
On the other
hand, in autotetraploid tomatoes there were a number of quadthe Tradeseantiae, meiotic behavior

rivalent configurations in prophase
of the first meiotic division, but

they broke up into bivalents by
late

diakinesis

that

at

or metaphase

metaphase

so

twenty-four

bivalents lined up on the equator.

Thus the absence of quadrivalents
is

not a sure sign that a plant is

not an autotetraploid.

The

segregation

autotetraploids

is

genes

in

interesting.

If

of

we assume that any one
Fig.
first

128.

Chromosomes

at

metaphase in a tetraploid

Two

Tradescantia.

quadriva-

and eight bivalents are
present.
Left, two bivalents;
lents

next

left

a figure-of-8 quadri-

valent with a bivalent below;

the other quadrivalent is at the

extreme

arms can pair with the homologous arm of any of the other
three chromosomes, random pairing among the four chromosomes
is

attained.

Random

if

pairing

should result in random disjunction such that

if

one particular

chromosome goes to a given daughter nucleus, it will be accompan-

right.

ied by any one of the other three with equal frequency.
fore,

of the

the genes on the four chromosomes are

There-

AAaa, there

are equal chances that the gametes will contain the two ^'s, the

two a's, the first A and first a, the second A and second a, the
first A and second a, and the second A and first a.
The gametic
ratio from such a tetraploid v/ill be lAA
4iAa
laa. Similarly,
a plant whose genotype is Aaaa would have the gametes lAa
laa, whereas one that is AAAa would produce gametes in the
ratio of lAA
lAa. If an autotetraploid has one dominant gene,
we say that it is simplex for that gene, whereas if it has two or
:

:

:

:

three,

we refer to it as duplex or triplex, respectively.

A plant

with no dominant genes is nulliplex; one with four dominants is
quadruplex.

Size Relationships

449

When a duplex plant is crossed with a nulliplex the ratio of offspring is

35^

bA

:

la.

If a

duplex plant is self-fertilized, the ratio

Such ratios are not expected among diploids nor are
they to be expected among pure allotetraploids, which, as we see
is

:

la.

behave at meiosis essentially as diploids.
Since pure allotetraploids produce only bivalents and autotetraploids produce some quadrivalents, quadrivalent formation has
been suggested as a criterion for autotetraploidy as opposed to
in the next chapter,

allotetraploidy.

Unfortunately, it has limitations, for some un-

doubted autotetraploids do not form quadrivalents, and some
plants that are in part auto- but also in part allotetraploids do
form quadrivalents. Dawson, therefore, has suggested that tetrasomic inheritance in the progeny of a tetraploid and the extent
to which it occurs are better criteria. One note of caution needs
to be interjected.

Even in a pure autotetraploid, true tetrasomic

inheritance occurs only for genes that are so near the centro-

mere that practically no crossing over occurs between them and
Although we cannot consider chromatid cross-

the centromere.

ing over in polyploids in this book, we should say that such cross-

overs disturb these tetrasomic ratios and even produce aaaa
plants from the cross

AAAa X cicicia or when a tetraploid with

gene A in the triplex condition is self-fertilized.
Size Relationships

In many respects autopolyploids are larger than the diploids
from which they are derived, whereas the corresponding haploids

These size differences may be manifested in general
body structure, or in specific organs and structures, or in funcFor example,
tions, or in more than one quantitative feature.
in Nicotiana Langsdorffii, H. H. Smith found that in a series consisting of haploids, diploids, triploids, tetraploids, and octoploids
there was an increase with each additional set of chromosomes
in the width of the tube of the corolla, in the ratio of the width
are smaller.

to the length of the leaves, in the thickness of the parts of the
plant, in lateness of maturity, and in the size of the cells through-

out the plant, including pollen, microsporocytes, guard cells, and

when viewed in cross-

cells in

the root tips and in the leaves

section.

From the haploid to the tetraploid there was a general

increase in the size and sturdiness of the plants and their organs,

but the octoploid was very abnormal.

It was somewhat dwarfed,

Haploids and Autopolyploids

450
it

bloomed later than the others, it was sterile, and it had small,

thick, wrinkled leaves (Fig. 129).

A

similar

diploid-tetraploid

relationship

was observed by

Bamford and Winkler when a tetraploid snapdragon that arose
spontaneously was found to have larger stems, inflorescences,
and flowers and larger pollen grains and stomata than
the related diploid strains. H. J. Sax pointed out that although
the frequency of stomata could not be used as an absolute index
of polyploidy, there is enough correlation between stomatal frequency and chromosome number to make a study of stomatal
leaves,

frequency helpful in a preliminary search for polyploidy in studies of

herbarium material.

Blakeslee and Warmke use several

making a preliminary separation of tetraploids and
diploids. They suggest that although the final decision in regard
to any given plant must be determined by counting its chromocriteria in

somes, a preliminary, tentative classification may be made from
the fact that the tetraploid usually has larger pollen grains,
larger seeds, larger stomata, wider, thicker leaves, leaves deeper

green in color, larger floral parts, and shorter, stouter fruit.

Re-

garding the size of stomata, Birdsall and Neatby found that an
increase in the number of

chromosomes was correlated with an
increase in the size of the stomata and a decrease in their number in species of Triticum.

None of these criteria is infallible,

however, for in some plants the size relationship in the polyploid
series does not exist.

Fankhauser has pointed out that differences in size between
polyploids and diploids are found in some animals but not in
For example, triploid forms of Trichoniscus eUsabethae
others.
and of Drosophila as well as tetraploids of Artemia salina and
Solenobia have been found that are larger than diploids, but
other investigators have reported no increase in size in triploid
Drosophila, triploid Habrobracon, and triploid and tetraploid
Bombyx. Fankhauser found four triploid specimens of the newt,
Triturus viridescens, and only one was strikingly larger than the
diploids.
The three animals of approximately normal size had
body organs which were normal in size but were composed of
cells that were larger than cells of the diploids. This discrepancy
is explained by the smaller number of cells in these organs.
The
cells of the triploid are larger than the cells of the diploids, but
during development an adjustment is made to this condition so

Size Relationships

451

Leaves and flowers in polyploids and aneuploids of Nicotiana
The leaves are from haploid (1), diploid (2), triploid (3),
tetraploid (4), and octoploid (5) plants. The flowers numbered 6 through
12 are from plants which have respectively 9, 17, 18, 32, 34, 36, and 72
chromosomes. (Photographs courtesy of Dr. H. H. Smith in the American
Fig. 129.

Langsdorfii.

Journal of Botany.)

452

Haploids and Autopolyploids

that fewer cells develop and the size of the organs and of the
body is the same as in diploids. The cause of this regulation
is

not understood, but in general amphibian embryos appear to

have considerable regulatory power, as the result of which nor-

mal or nearly normal embryos are produced in spite of serious
disturbances.

Higher Autopolyploids
Autopolyploids with more than four complete sets of chromo-

somes are known but are far less common than autotetraploids.
Meiosis is generally more irregular in these forms, and there are

A4

Chromosomes in the metaphase of the root tips of diploid
and pentaploid plants of Crepis. Homologous chromosomes are
indicated by the same letter.
The chromosomes in these forms can be
identified by their morphology.
(Redrawn from Navashin in Genetics.)
Fig. 130.

(left)

often configurations of

more than five chromosomes. One apparently clear case of pentaploidy was reported by Navashin in
a species of Crepis. A genome of this species consists of three

Chromosome A is long, with a very long and a
Chromosome C has a long and a very
Chromosome D is readily identified by a satellite.

chromosomes.

relatively short arm.

short arm.

These chromosomes are readily identified in somatic cells of the
pentaploid, where
(Fig. 130).

ploids

of

it

is

observed that there are five of each

Miintzing has described meiotic behavior in pentathe

orchard

grass,

and they seen^

to

be typical.

Meiosis is characterized by a variable number of configurations

Autopolyploids and Evolution

453

ranging from one to five (Fig. 131). In fifteen different metaphase figures of the first meiotic division there were fourteen
different combinations.

The average numbers per

cell

were:

univalents, 1.73; bivalents, 3.60; trivalents, 2.60; quadrivalents,
1.40;

and quinquevalents, 2.67.

-tt^ li f|

As is to be expected according

M V ^ftl U

Meiotic configurations of a pentaploid Dactylis. Present in
1 hexavalent, 4 quinquevalents, 1 quadrivalent, 2 bivalents,
and 2 univalents. (Redrawn from Miintzing in Hereditas.)
Fig. 131.

the

cell

are

to the behavior of chiasmata, there were fewer quinquevalents
in the pentaploid than there were quadrivalents in related tetra-

ploids, and in turn there were fewer quadrivalents in these tetra-

ploids than there were trivalents in related triploids.

Autopolyploids and Evolution

Because of the generally greater size and vigor of autopolyploids, the possibility that they might have played an important

role in evolution must be considered.

Because of their sterility,
triploids are of little importance unless they reproduce vegeta-

As a matter of fact, however, neither triploids nor tetraploids represent anything strikingly new in most genera, for they

tively.

usually differ from the diploid stock merely in vigor and other
attributes of growth.

This difference has been studied carefully

in Tradescantia.

Both T. occidentalis and T. canaliculata contain diploids and
tetraploids, and in both species the two types resemble one another so completely that not only are they not classified as separate subspecies or varieties but they cannot even be classed as
diploids or tetraploids on the basis of their external appearance.

When they have been classified by cytological examinations, it is
easy to see that the tetraploids are definitely larger and have
Because of their greater vigor, they
longer blooming seasons.

have greater ability to colonize.

Each species apparently arose

Haploids and Autopolyploids

454

as a diploid in a small region of the United States from central

Texas to

northwestern

Arkansas.

Subsequently,

autotetraploid strains arose and spread out over
million square miles.

apparently

more than a

T. occidentalis occupied a western area

Wyoming, and North Dakota, whereas T,
canaliculata spread through the Middle West and east of the Misreaching Arizona,

sissippi into Wisconsin, Ohio,

and Virginia.

Although autotetraploidy does not usually create new species,
it has produced types which can flourish under such a wider variety of situations and can spread over such a wider region than

the diploids that it has been an important factor in the dissemi-

nation of certain species and in the establishing of certain species
as important

members of certain areas.

Autopolyploidy often

seems to result in strains that can cover newly exposed areas.

For example, in Biscutella laevigata Manton showed that the
diploids are restricted to small preglacial or interglacial areas in

Europe but the autotetraploids are much more successThey appear to be
ful colonizers and cover a much wider area.
postglacial immigrants in many of the areas they now occupy
and they may still be spreading.
central

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

What percentage of fertile gametes would be expected from hap-

loid plants that had respectively 6, 7, 8,
2.

What

percentage

triploid plants that

of

fertile

and 9 chromosomes?

gametes would be expected from

had respectively 18, 21, 24, and 27 chromosomes?

Compare results with problem 1.
and made very many self-poUinations,
would it be possible to obtain offspring? If so, what would be their
3.

If you had a haploid plant

chromosome number in terms of n?
plant was a triploid?
4.

What would be the result if the

In a given plant, red flowers (W) are dominant over white {w)

and long leaves (S) over short (s). If a triploid of the genotype
WTFiy SSs is crossed with one which is www sss and enough pollinations
are made to ensure an adequate number of offspring, what would be the
ratio of the WS, Ws, wS, and ws types in the offspring?
(Assume no
crossing over between genes and centromeres.)
5.

This gene
is recessive to Wx (nonwaxy).
A wxwx female is crossed with a Wxwx male.

In maize, wx (waxy)

affects the

endosperm.

What is the nature of the ears that result, and what are the genotypes

Questions and Problems
of the offspring?

Is the result different

from the reciprocal cross?

455
Ex-

plain.

note that kernels with waxy endosperm stain

6. It is interesting to

red with iodine and those with the Wx gene (starchy) stain blue.

wx gene also affects the pollen.

The

wx gene stain
What would be the color

Pollen grains with the

red while those with the Wx gene stain blue.

of the pollen grains after staining in the plants in question 5?
7. If

be

the plant in question 4 were a tetraploid, what offspring would

expected

from the

following

WWww ssss X wwww SSss
8.

;

Wwww Ssss X wwww ssss
X wwww ssss ?

crosses

TFTFT^it; ssss

:

;

By diagraming the chromatids, show how aaaa plants could be

produced by the cross

AAAa X aaaa if crossing over occurs between

the locus of a and the centromere.

V

Chapter 27

ALLOPOLYPLOIDS
Let us assume that a certain diploid plant has six chromosomes which we can designate AA BB CC. Since this plant has
two identical sets of chromosomes, the chromosomes of each set
would be A B C. We pointed out in the last chapter that autopolyploids have more than two genomes and that

all

the ge-

nomes of an autopolyploid are alike. In an autotriploid form
of this plant, the chromosome constitution would be AAA BBB
CCC, whereas in an autotetraploid which was derived from this
diploid it would be AAAA BBBB CCCC. We will use "genome"
here as synonymous with the more cumbersome "set of chromosomes," disregarding any differences that might be due simply
to different alleles.

Let us assume now that we have two diploid plants whose
chromosomal constitutions are respectively AA BB CC and LL
PP and that they are able to cross together and produce a
hybrid. This hybrid would have a genome from each of the two
plants and would therefore consist of two different genomes.
P, no chromosome
Since its constitution would be A B C L
pairing, the
chromosome
would
be
no
would have a mate, there
plant would behave like a haploid plant with six univalent chromosomes, and the plant would be highly sterile. If, however,
the chromosomes of this sterile hybrid became doubled in some
way, a plant would be formed whose chromosomes would be
AA BB CC LL
This plant could be regarded as a
PP.
tetraploid because it had four genomes, but since two of the
genomes were alike and different from the other two which were
identical, each chromosome would be represented only twice as
in a diploid instead of four times as in an autotetraploid, and
the plant would behave as a diploid. Such a tetraploid would

MM

M

MM

Because it behaves like a diploid but nevertheless is composed of two kinds of genomes, it is often called
an amphidiploid.

be an allotetraploid.

456

Aniphidiploids

457

In the allotetraploid we have mentioned, the chromosome nmiiIt is four times the haploid number, and because
4n condition, the plant is considered to be a tetraploid.
However, amphidiploids may be produced from two plants which
If a plant with six
differ with respect to chromosome number.
and a plant with eight chromosomes were crossed and produced
an amphidiploid hybrid, the chromosome number would be fourteen, which is not a multiple of the haploid number of either
of the diploid parents.
We could still regard this plant as an
allopolyploid because it has four sets of chromosomes so that

ber is twelve.

of this

in dealing with allopolyploids it is better to consider their poly-

ploid nature in the light of the number of genomes rather than
of the number of chromosomes.

Of course, the problem does not

arise when dealing with autopolyploids.

In our allotetraploid, the genomes of the two parents differed

Although it makes the situation
assume two completely different genomes, it might
well be questioned whether plants which differed so completely
could cross at all. In most allotetraploids the two sets of chrocompletely from one another.
clearer to

mosomes are different but not so completely different.

Instead

of designating the two genomes as A B C and L M P, it would

probably be more accurate, in most cases, at least, to designate

them Ai Bi Ci and A2 B2 C2, so that the chromosome constitution
of the allotetraploid would be AiAi A2A2 BiBi B2B2 CiCi C2C2.
Amphidiploids

Some known amphidiploids are the result of hybridization between two species of the same genus; others arose from crosses
between species belonging to two different genera. Some amphidiploids have arisen spontaneously throughout the course
of evolution; others have been created by experimentation. Several amphidiploids that have arisen spontaneously have been
duplicated or nearly duplicated by appropriate crosses between
species that are believed to

have been the original parents of

the spontaneous form.

An interesting amphidiploid is the species Spartina Townsendii,
which is believed to have arisen spontaneously as an amphidiploid sometime before 1871, which is the first time that it was
collected.
fiora

Morphologically this species resembles both S. alterni-

and S. stricta.

Huskins's study of the number of chromo-

458

Allopolyploids

somes in these species shows that S. Townsendii has 126, and the
other two species have respectively 70 and 56. To reconstruct
the probable sequence of events, a 35-chromosome gamete of S.
altemiflora united with a 28-chromosome gamete of *S. stricta to
form a hybrid which had 63 chromosomes and was probably
highly sterile. In some way that we cannot explain, the number
of chromosomes of the hybrid became doubled to produce a plant
with 126 chromosomes, which was practically fully fertile. This
plant was *S. Townsendii. This species has four genomes, but
the two genomes of S. altemiflora are so different from those of
S. stricta that chromosomes from the two species never pair with
one another and, as a result, only bivalents are formed.

Each

bivalent consists of either two altemiflora chromosomes or two

homologues of stricta.

Numerous similar amphidiploids that arose from crosses between two species of the same genus might be cited. To mention a very few, there are Primula kewensis, which arose from

a cross between P. floribunda and P. verticillata; Digitalis mer-

which arose from crossing among themselves hybrids
between D. purpurea and -D. ambigua; and Galeopsis Tetrahit,
which arose in nature from a cross between G. pubescens and G.
tonensis,

speciosa and was also synthesized artificially by Miintzing, who
crossed these species together.

Apparently a large number of

cultivated plants have originated as allopolyploids.

Some species

have 13 pairs of chromosomes; others have 26 pairs.
The former group includes wild species from Asia, Africa, Aus-

of cotton

tralia,

Central America, and the Galapagos Islands and the cul-

tivated Asiatic cottons, whereas the 26-chromosome group includes wild plants from Mexico, South America, the Galapagos

and the Hawaiian Islands and the American types of
cultivated cotton. Skovsted has suggested that the 26-chromosome American varieties are amphidiploids which arose from a
cross between 13-chromosome types from America and Asia.
This suggestion has been strongly supported by Beasley's exIslands,

perimental evidence, based on a resynthesis of a similar 26-

chromosome type from a cross between an American 13-chromosome cotton and a type from Asia which also had 13 chromoApparently our cultivated tobacco arose as a 48-chromosome amphidiploid between twb 24-chromosome species. Al-

somes.

Amphidiploids

459

though the exact species involved have not been proved conclusively, Clausen and his co-workers believe that the original
parents of Nicotiana tabacum were closely related to A^. sylvestris and N. tomentosijormis.
Numerous other amphidiploids
among cultivated plants have been reported, and many of them
have been listed and discussed by Schiemann.
Intergeneric amphidiploids have been produced between closely
related genera.
Probably the best known is Raphanobrassica,
Karpechenko's synthesized hybrid between a radish (Raphanus)
and a cabbage (Brassica). Each of the parental species has
nine pairs of chromosomes and the amphidiploid had eighteen
The latter was perfectly fertile, as might be expected
pairs.
from the nature of its meiotic behavior. All the gametes have
nine radish and nine cabbage chromosomes.
A series of amphidiploid hybrids between wheat (Triticum)

and rye

has also been studied.

These amphidiploids
constitute a new genus, Triticale. Miintzing examined six such
strains which differed in the particular wheat and rye biotypes
that formed the parents. In pollen fertility they varied from
(Secale)

61.8 to 92.5 per cent fertile, although they varied within the
strain

from year to year.

Two of the strains showed bivalenls

and univalents at the first meiotic division

(Fig. 132),

with the

frequency of univalents higher in one strain than in the other.

Higher configurations were extremely rare.

The various strains

differ in height, in vigor, in winter hardiness,

ity in baking.

and in their qual-

Apparently the properties of a particular strain

of Triticale depend less upon their polyploid nature as such than

upon the particular biotypes of the wheat and rye plants that
were their parents.
Other amphidiploids have been made among the Triticenae by
Sears.

Eighteen amphidiploids from ten species in which the

haploid number of chromosomes was seven were synthesized,

and seven of them were from intergeneric crosses involving the
genera Triticum, Haynaldia, and Aegilops (Fig. 133).
They
were generally intermediate between their parents in their morphological characters and varied in fertility from very highly
sterile to very highly fertile.
At meiosis most of the configurations were bivalents. However, there were some univalents, trivalents, and quadrivalents in almost all, and a few of the amphi-

Allopolyploids

460
diploids

had some configurations with more than four chromo-

somes.

Genetic ratios in allopolyploids are usually different from those
In our theoretical "pure" allotetraploid, in
in autopolyploids.

which the genome from the one parental species is entirely different from that of the other species, no locus should be common

/

Fig. 132.

First metaphase in the intergeneric wheat-rye hybrid, Triticale.

Left, no univalents and only bivalents present ; right, another cell from the

same plant with eighteen univalents. These two cells indicate the great
(Redrawn from Miintzing in Hereditas.)
irregularity in this hybrid.
to the two genomes, so that all inheritance should be monogenic,

However, since most allotetraploids are not so "pure," the one genome frequently has a numgiving simple mendelian ratios.

ber of small segments

genome.

It

is

identical

with segments of the other

conceivable that some loci should therefore be

common to the two genomes, and such results have been found.
two segments carrying identical loci are so small that they
rarely, if ever, pair, each locus will behave in transmission independently of the other; and if each is heterozygous, a 15 1
ratio will be obtained upon selfing. For example, if the identical
segment of the amphidiploid just discussed contains the locus of
gene a, and if each parent is Aa, the amphidiploid hybrid might
well be AaAa, Using the conventional method of designating
If

:

461

Amphidiploids
duplicate genes,

we should write these Aiai A^ao.

Supposedly,

chromosomal segment might be so small that it practically
never pairs. If such a plant was selfed, the ratio of offspring
would be 15A {9A1A2
this

+

3 Ai ao -}- 3 ai A2)

:

la (ai 02)

we pointed out in Chapter
21. Thus amphidiploids often
as

give ratios attributed to duplicate genes, and more or less

remote amphidiploidy might
be the cause of duplicate genes
in a number of plants.

chromosomes

If the

allotetraploid are

of

an

AA BB CC

LLMMPP, and if one A
chromosome

will

pair

only

A while the
BB CC LL MM

with the other
pair

others

and PP, we have an extreme
This type of
between chromo-

allotetraploid.

pairing

is

somes from the same parent
only and is usually called
autosyndesis.

hand,

if

On

the

other

the chromosomes of

the two species are sufficiently

homologous so that we can

them AiAi BiBi
CiCi A2A2 B2B2 C2C2, Ai may
often pair with A2 Bi with
designate

B2,

and Ci with C2, and fre-

quently quadrivalents will be
present.

Pairing in an allo-

polyploid of chromosomes

A fertile amphidiploid
between Triticum
Iwbrid
intergeneric
monococcum and Aegilops uniaristata.
The diploid (2n) Fi is sterile but the
amphidiploid (in) is fertile. The 2n
FiG.

133.

and parent spikes are in flower, but
The seeds
the 4n spike is mature.
some
of those
4/i
spike
are
above the
harvested from the amphidiploid.
(Photograph courtesy of Dr. E. R.
Sears in the Journal of Heredity.)

from both parents

is

allosyndesis.

Much of the earlier confusion in studies of hybrids resulted from
the fact that many are allopolyploid for some chromosomes and

autopolyploid for others and some even incorporate similar and
dissimilar segments in individual chromosomes.

We showed in the last chapter that if an autotetraploid is duplex for a dominant gene

(AAaa)

,

its

gametes will be in the

Allopolyploids

462
ratio of lAA
will

:

4:Aa

be lyl^Ai4

:

:

If such a plant is selfed, the offspring

laa.

SAAAa

:

ISAAaa

:

SAaaa

:

laaaa, or 35A

:

la

This will be true not only if the configuration
of the chromosomes bearing this gene is a quadrivalent, as in an
phenotypically.

autotetraploid

and some allotetraploids that are not

''pure,"

but also if there are only bivalents, provided that either autosyndesis or allosyndesis occurs at random. Yarnell has given
us a good example of a 35

:

between Fragaria bracteata (n = 7)
resulted in

some tetraploid

an amphidiploid. A cross
and F. vesca rosea {n = 7)

1 ratio in

plants.

At

meiosis, quadrivalents

were occasionally found at diakinesis, but there were usually
fourteen bivalents at first metaphase. The genetic ratios of a
gene for pink flower color indicate that, so far as the chromo-

some which bears this gene is concerned, apparently chromosome
pairing may be by allosyndesis or autosyndesis with equal frequency. Pink (P) is dominant over white (p). The bracteata
parent was white-flowered (pp) whereas the vesca rosea parent
had pink flowers and was apparently PP, so that the tetraploid
hybrid was duplex for the P gene. When seven F2 plants were
tested for their genotypic constitution by crossing with recessive
diploids, it was apparent that one w^as triplex or quadriplex for
P, two were duplex, and four were simplex. The population is
small but it indicates that the chromosomes bearing the P and
p genes paired allosyndetically or autosyndetically at random.
Allotriploids
Allotriploids, like autotriploids, naturally represent

an unbal-

anced condition. An allotriploid involving two species has two
genomes from one parent and one from the other. In a "pure"
allotriploid in which the odd genome is sufficiently distinct
from the two which were introduced by the other parent, the two
identical genomes form bivalents, whereas the other genome
normally behaves as a set of univalent chromosomes. Hollings-

head found some triploid hybrids between Crepis capillaris [n =
3) and C. tectorum (n = 4) that behaved in that manner. The
triploids contained two C. capillaris genomes, which paired to
form three bivalents, and one genome of C. tectorum, which consisted of four univalents (Fig. 134). A different result has been
reported by Yarnell in triploids produced by crossing a Fragaria

Higher Allopolyploids
bracteata

463

X F. vesca rosea tetraploid hybrid with such a diploid

At first metaphase in these triploids usually
ten bivalents and a univalent are found, which would undoubtedly indicate pairing between chromosomes that are not stricth^
species as F. collina.

homologous.

Fig. 134.

There are several

possibilities in

an

allotriploid

Chromosomes in a triploid hybrid between Crepis capillaris

showing Ihree bivalents and four uni(ReRight, first metaphase showing the same configurations.
valents.
drawn from Hollingshead in University of California Publications in the

and C. tectorum.

Left, diakinesis

Agricultural Sciences.)

whose three genomes are A A B. Although frequently the two A
sets pair and the B set forms univalents, sometimes the univalent
chromosomes of the B set pair with one another so that only
pairs or pairs plus one univalent are found.

It is possible that

the B set would be sufficiently like the A's that an A and a B
set would pair, but in such a plant, trivalents would more likely

be formed and the plant would behave like an autotriploid.

Higher Allopolyploids
In some genera of plants allopolyploids with more than four

genomes are frequent. Often examination of the chromosome
behavior at meiosis would indicate that the plants were diploids,
for they form only bivalents, and it is only from further evidence

we could detect that the plant is perhaps a hexaploid or
octoploid or some other type of higher polyploid. If the number
of chromosomes in such a plant is large, we might suspect an allopolyploid situation, but even this is only suggestive. The pres-

that

464

Allopolyploids

ence of duplicate genes is also fairly strong evidence of a remote
polyploid origin.

In some genera, a series of species

may be

found with chromosome numbers in multiples, and this also indicates that the higher forms are probably allopolyploids.
It is interesting to note that two of the classic examples of
duplicate genes, Nilsson-Ehle's genes for seed color in wheat

and Shull's triangular capsules in Capsella, are found in genera
where there is more than one diploid chromosome number. For
example, Capsella rubella, C. Viguieri, C. grandifiora, and C.
tuscaloosae are all diploids in which the haploid

number is eight.
toris,

chromosome

Other species, however, such as C. biirsa-pas-

C. Heegeri, C. occidentalis, C. orientalis, C. djurdjurae, and

C. penarthae, have sixteen as the haploid number and are very

probably allotetraplotds.

It is highly interesting to note that the

duplicate genes which have been found in this genus are only in

the second group of species.

In the known amphidiploid, Gale-

opsis Tetrahit, Miintzing has recorded several characters con-

by duplicate genes, and the possible connection between
allopolyploidy and duplicate genes has been suggested by a numtrolled

ber of investigators.

A complicated and interesting situation is found in wheat.
Species of the genus Triticum can be divided up into three chro-

mosome groups.

The Einkorn group includes T. monococcum
and is diploid, with n = 7. This species is of little importance
economically but is generally more resistant to disease than the
other species. The Emmer group includes T. dicoccum, T. polonicum, T. persicum, T. dicoccoides, T. durum, and T. turgidum.

They are tetraploids {n = 14) and are of little value except for
the

last

two,

but they are more

resistant

to

disease

than

The Vulgare group includes T. vulgare, T. compactu7n, and T. spelta. They are hexaploids (n = 21) and, with
the next group.

the exception of the last species, are of greatest economic im-

portance and widest distribution.

They are the bread wheats but

unfortunately they are considerably more susceptible to disease

than the other groups.
In all these species, meiosis is very regular, and all the chro-

mosomal configurations are bivalents. The series of chromosome
numbers in multiples of seven indicates that the species with
higher numbers developed by polyploidy, and this view is
strengthened by the presence of duplicate and triplicate genes

Higher Allopolyploids
in the hexaploid species.

465

In crosses between T. monococcum and

T. turgidum, the hybrids have twenty-one chromosomes but form

seven bivalents and seven univalents.

Apparently one genome

of T. turgidum is sufficiently like the genome of the other species

that it pairs with the Einkorn genome, leaving the other turgidum

genome unpaired. These seven chromosomes behave as univalents and usually pass to one pole or the other without dividing,
but sometimes they divide equationally at the first division. The
results are similar in hybrids between the Emmer and Vulgare
species.
The fourteen Emmer chromosomes pair with fourteen
of the Vulgare chromosomes whereas the other seven Vulgare
chromosomes behave as univalents. From the point of view of
wheat improvement, it appears to be unfortunately true that
most of the genes that make for the most desirable bread characteristics are located in the seven Vulgare chromosomes that
do not pair and are generally eliminated from future generations
in

of

Emmer X Vulgare crosses because they are unpaired.
Crosses between the Emmer and Vulgare wheats and species
the genus Aegilops,

a

grass native to the Mediterranean

throw considerable

light on the nature of the chromosomes in these two groups of wheats. When Aegilops cylindrica

region,

{n = 14)

is

crossed with the Vulgare wheats, seven Aegilops and

seven Triticum chromosomes pair, leaving the other chromosomes
of the two genera unpaired.

This would indicate that each genus

has one seven-chromosome genome in common.

Sax has proposed the following scheme for evolution in these
genera. The Einkorn wheats are the most primitive wheats and
have one genome they are AA. The Emmer group evolved from
it in part by a modification of this genome into B and are AA BB.
In some way Aegilops cylindrica evolved with the genomic con;

CC DD. The C and D genomes are completely different from the ones in the Emmer wheats.
A cross between

stitution

Aegilops cylindrica and a wheat of the

Emmer group, followed

by a doubling of the chromosomes, produced the Vulgare wheats
whose chromosome sets are AA BB CC. The relationship of
these plants and the method of pairing to be expected in the
various hybrids between them is indicated in Fig. 135. These
studies show conclusively that although the Vulgare wheats
behave as diploids they are actually allohexaploids.

466

Allopolyploids

Phleum pratense

another hexaploid species that has frequently been treated as a diploid because of regular pairing. It

was regarded

is

an allohexaploid with three genomes, which
A few "triploids" arose along
with ''diploids" in twin progenies and such ''triploids" (really
as

Miintzing designated N, A, and B.

/

A A

\

Einkorn

A

Aegilops cylindrica

Vulgare

ABC

C D

Fig. 135. Diagram showing the relationship between the einkorn, emmer,
and vulgare wheats with one another and with Aegilops cylindrica. Ilkist rated also are the hybrids which would be produced between them.
In
their haploid stages, the einkorn wheats have genome A, the emmer group
A and B, and the vulgare wheats A, B, and C. Aegilops cylindrica has
genome C in common with the vulgare wheats and also a fourth genome,
D.

enneaploids) are "autotriploids."

Since each chromosome is rep-

resented three times, a high percentage of trivalents would be

expected

among the sixty-three chromosomes.

Actually, howmost of the configurations are bivalents, there are some
univalents, and only rarely does a trivalent appear. Miintzing
ever,

believes that the high frequency of bivalents indicates that there
is

considerable allopolyploidy between the

A and B genomes.

He does not consider multivalents a good criterion for the type
of potyploidy and suggests that many intraspecific polyploids
that have been thought to be allopolyploids are really auto-

polyploids that do not regularly form multivalents.

Another hexaploid that occurs in nature is Pentstemon azureus
subsp. angustissimus (Gray) Keck.

This has a 2n chromosome

Higher Allopolyploids

467

The related species P. laetus has 2n = 16, which
would indicate that the species with the higher number is a hexanumber of 48.

Apparently these two species hybridize in one particular
region of California to form P. neotericus Keck, which has 32
as the haploid number and would therefore be an octoploid hyploid.

Because of the high chromosome number the loss of a
chromosome or two does not greatly disturb the balance, and

brid.

^d

of P. neotericus
forms of P. azureus subsp. angustissimus
are known which are respectively hypohexaploid or hypooctoploid.

The hybrid origin of P. neotericus is inferred from a

number of different lines of evidence.

It resembles

both laetus

and azureus and has often been classified as one or the other;
the chromosome number represents the sum of the numbers of
the two other species; the chromosomes in both P. asureus and
P. neotericus behave as if they were high polyploids; P. laetus
and P. azureus overlap in their geographic distribution, and P.
neotericus occupies an area between the regions of the other two
near a place where they overlap. When several different kinds
of evidence point to the same conclusion, the argument is very
convincing.
Interesting higher polyploids have been reported by Stebbins

and his co-workers in the genus Bromus. B. carinatus has 56
chromosomes and always shows 28 bivalents. Since the basic
chromosome number is believed to be 7, these plants are octoploids. A related species from Arizona, formerly classified as B.
carinatus var. anzonicus but better regarded as B. arizonicus,

has 84 chromosomes in sporophyte tissue and is a duodecaploid;
it

always forms 42 bivalents.

A '^diploid" hybrid between these

2n = 70, receiving 42 medium-sized chromosomes
from B. arizonicus and 21 medium and 7 large ones from B.
carinatus. In the hybrid the 7 large chromosomes behave as univalents, and at least two sets of 7 medium chromosomes from B.
arizonicus appear as univalents. Two sets of 7 medium chromosomes appear to be common to both species, for 14 bivalents are
present. Up to 7 trivalents are present, resulting from the pairing of two sets of B. arizonicus and one set of B. carinatus. The
species has

hybrid is completely sterile.

A large number of inversion bridges

in the two meiotic divisions indicates that many of the homolo-

gous chromosomes are not identical with one another but differ
at least

by inverted segments.

The manner of pairing in the

Allopolyploids

468

hybrid indicates that the genomes of the two parental species
could be designated AA BB CiCi LiLi for B. carinatus and AA

BB CiCi C2C2 DD EE for B. arizonicus. The Li sets from the
and the D and E sets of the second form the univalents.
The 14 bivalents result from pairing between the two
A sets and the two B sets, whereas pairing among the two Ci
sets and the one C2 set is the cause -of the 7 trivalents.
One of the classi(;al examples of higher allopolyploidy is the
genus Rosa. Hurst, Blackburn, and others have shown that a
whole series of such polyploids exists. The basic chromosome
number in this genus is 7, and there are five diploid species each
of which may be considered a basic type from which all other
species and varieties have been derived. Some of the other types
are autotetraploids, hexaploids, and octoploids. There are, however, many varieties in which only some of the chromosomes pair
and the others are univalents.
species

first

Secondary Association

Normal chromosome pairing is the result of homologous segments in chromosomes that are partially or wholly homologous.
The chiasmata that arise in such paired segments hold the paired
chromosomes together from zygotene
^^ ^^^^ anaphase, and if two chro• #f #
•'•^
*•
% * #4 ^*lf• ^ • # mosomes do not pair and form chias#* M^\ •
• J • #* S
mata during early prophase, they
•
^^^^ ^°^ ^^ joined in the same con••H*
figuration at metaphase. This nor.„^
„
T^
^
Polar views of
FiG. 136.
mal chromosome pairmg is somethe first metaphase of Dahlia
times referred to as primary associvariabilis {2n = 64) showing
(multivalent)
and
primary
ation to distinguish it from another
secondary association of the
^^^^ ^^ chromosomal association
chromosomes. (Redrawn from
^'^^^^ ^"^es at prometaphase and
Lawrence in the Journal

^*

,

...

-

.

,

.

,

.

,

,

,

,

of

is

Genetics.)

called secondary association.

secondary
or

more bivalents may

plate

(Fig.

136).

indicate a remote

lie

close

This type

of

association

two
metaphase

occurs,

together on the
association

homology between the

is

If

believed

bivalents.

to

This ho-

mology is not sufficiently close to bring about normal chromosome pairing, but it is close enough to cause the slightly homologous chromosomes to be side by side. Secondary association has

Questions and Problems

469

no effect on the segregation of chromosomes for the associated
However, it is
bivalents are not joined together in any way.
believed to indicate some homology and has been used as a
criterion of remote polyploidy in some plants. Apparently secondary association can occur only in plants with small chromoIn some diploid hybrids, such as the diploid Raphanus-

somes.

Brassica hybrid from which the amphidiploid arose, there is no
chromosome pairing because the chromosomes of the two sets
are too dissimilar.

Yet there may be enough resemblance to

cause the univalents to tend to lie together in pairs on the metaphase plate, although since they are not united by chiasmata
these univalents pass to the poles independently of one another.

Secondary association occurs in allopolyploids with small chromosomes and even in plants that have been believed to be
diploids.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

In a certain genus there are six chromosomes in a genome.

Species

L has the genomes Ai, B, and C; species ]\I has the genomes A2, B;
species

N has genomes A^, C.

made.

What would be the chromosome behavior at meiosis

All combinations of these species are
(a)

in

these three combinations and (6) in allopolyploids derived from each
of the three combinations?

One dominant gene mutates to a recessive allele in a plant which
reproduces readily by self-fertilization. Would the recessive character
2.

appear most easily if the plant were (a) a diploid, (6) an autotetraploid,
(c) an allotetraploid? Explain.
If you had an
3. Some of the more desirable apples are triploids.
especially valuable mutation in one of these triploid trees, how would

you establish an orchard of that variety?
4. In apples, the basic chromosome number is 17 and diploid varieThey are often grouped as the result
ties usually have seven bivalents.
of secondary association into seven groups of bivalents.

What light, if

throw on the original basic number of chromosomes in
apples? Triploids have occasionally multivalent configurations, sometimes involving as many as nine chromosomes. Does this support or
any, does this

reject your other position?

Explain.

Chapter 28

THE ORIGIN OF POLYPLOIDS
We pointed out in previous chapters that many species of
plants and some animals are either autopolyploids or allopolyploids.

If we start with the assumption, and it seems reasonable

enough to do so, that the diploid condition is primitive and that
polyploids are derived from diploids, the important questions are
how did the polyploids arise and what mechanisms bring about
the polyploid state?

—

Apparently only two factors can initiate polyploidy doubling
of the chromosome number in somatic tissue, which results in
a polyploid branch, and doubling of the chromosome number
in the formation of germ cells, which results in germ cells with
a multiple of the n number of chromosomes. If the polyploid
branch is one that later gives rise to germinal tissue, the gametes
which form on it will have more than n chromosomes. These
two conditions can arise spontaneously in nature but can also
be brought about artificially by certain changes in the environ-

ment of the organism.

If these conditions occur

and polyploids

are produced, polyploids of still other types can be brought about

by a repetition of these fundamental changes or secondarily by
self-pollination of the polyploids or by certain crosses of which
polyploids are one or both of the members.
These secondary
methods of producing polyploids may occur spontaneously or

may be carried out artificially.
If a disturbance of cell division occurs

of megaspores or microspores

(that

is,

during the formation

at meiosis), individual

male or female gametes develop which are 2n. If two such unite,
a tetraploid is produced whereas a triploid will result from the
union of such a gamete with a normal haploid gamete. If the
disturbance arises at mitosis in a bud primordium, a 4n branch
will result.
If a flowering branch, it will produce 2n gametes.
Once a polyploid has arisen, others may be produced from it.
If doubling of the chromosome number in somatic tissue occurs
470

The Origin of Polyploids

471

in a triploid or a tetraploid, a hexaploid or an octoploid results.

becomes established among a group of diploids it will probably produce further tetraploids by selfing but
it may produce some triploids by crosses between it and the
diploids. An apparent situation of that sort has been found in a
If a tetraploid plant

colony of Tradescantias in southeastern Louisiana.
track ran alongside a woods.

A railroad

In the woods grew the native T.

paludosa, a diploid species, but on the railroad embankment
running along the track were a number of tetraploid hybrids

between T. hirsutiflora and T. canaliculata, seeds of which had
apparently been introduced from more northern regions by the
railroad. Intermingled with them were a few plants of T. paludosa. Three triploids were found near the region where the two
species met. They were undoubtedly hybrids between the native
diploid T. paludosa and the introduced tetraploids for they
showed characters of all three species.
Division of the nucleus unaccompanied by the cell division
which almost invariably follows it can be brought about artificially by certain rather drastic changes in the environment of
the cell. Among the agents used have been sudden changes in
temperature, wounding with the formation of callus tissue, narcotics, various other chemicals, bacteria, insects and similar infective agents, changes in osmotic pressure, and radiation. Sax,
for example, subjected plants of Tradescantia paludosa to temperature changes by keeping them at 8° C for two weeks and
then transferring them to a chamber kept at 38° C. Many chromosomal aberrations were produced by this change resembling
those produced where the plants are exposed to X-rays. A number of different kinds of aberrations are produced, and among
them are found diploid pollen grains. A day after the removal
of the plants to the hot chamber many first anaphase figures
were found in which the spindle apparatus had been so disturbed that the chromosomes fail to pass to the poles and
apparently became included in one nucleus.

After the plants

had been subjected to the high temperatures

for four or five

all

days, complete asynapsis or failure of pairing was found in the

microsporocytes, there was no evidence of a spindle, and usually
all

twelve univalent chromosomes passed into the resting stage

These meiotic abnormalities produce diploid
some of which apparently function and therefore

in a single nucleus.

pollen grains,

472

The Origin of Polyploids

lay the foundation for polyploidy.

In both this plant and Rhoeo

extreme variations in temperature were more effective than constant heat or constant cold. Similar results have been reported
in other plants by other writers,

and some polyploids have been

TABLE 25
Results of Experiments on Eggs of Salamanders Subjected
TO Refrigeration
(From Fankhauser in the Quarterly Review of Biology.)
Temperature: 0° to 4.35° C.
Duration of treatment: Usually 5 to 24 hours.

Colchicine
division at the time the sperm enters the egg.

473
After fertilization,

meiosis of the egg nucleus proceeds and the second anaphase is

reached about 30 minutes after fertilization.

If the eggs are re-

frigerated at 0° to 3° C just after fertilization, this second meiotic

and a diploid egg nucleus is
produced which fuses with the sperm nucleus to form the nucleus
division fails to proceed normally,

of the triploid animal.

In the second species about 45 per cent

were triploids (Table 25), but in the
first species one experiment was practically 100 per cent successful.
When the first species was treated at temperatures of 34.2°
to 37.2° C for 5 to over 50 minutes, about 80 per cent of the
treated eggs developed into triploid larvae.
of the treated individuals

Colchicine

In addition to other environmental agents, various chemicals

have been tested in order, if possible, to get an agent that is more
uniformly effective than these other agents. In 1937, Blakeslee
and Nebel, independently and approximately simultaneously,
reported that extremely valuable results could be obtained by
treating plants with the drug colchicine.
Since then, so many
investigators have used it on such a wide variety of plants that
it would be impossible in this book to approach a complete discussion of the results obtained. In general, we can say that it
has been highly successful in a wide variety of genera in producing both auto- and allopolyploids and that it has even succeeded in woody plants that had not previously yielded artificial polyploids from any treatment.
Other chemicals have been used since the discovery of colchicine, and a number have been found which produce more or
less the same end result.
They include benzene, benzene vapor,
acenaphthene, veratrine, sulfanilamide, chloral hydrate, lack of
oxygen, sanguinarine hydrochloride, and various growth substances such as heteroauxin.

very interesting to note that
more slowly on Allium than

It is

acenaphthene acts
colchicine, it can be used to produce tetraploids on Colchicum,
although the latter, as might be expected, is not affected by

although

colchicine.

One of the chief effects of colchicine on plant tissue is on the
chromosomes of cells in the earlier stages of division. Apparently
cells in the resting stage or in anaphase or telophase are not

The Origin of Polyploids

474

metaphase marked alterations are obPerhaps these
served in the behavior of the chromosomes.
clearly
in
shown
most
O'Mara's
work in
alterations have been
Allium Cepa. When onion root tips are treated with colchicine
in the proper concentrations, metaphase figures appear to lack
the spindle mechanism normally found in dividing cells. This
disturbance to the spindle has also been observed by Eigsti and
affected, but in cells in

137.
The immediate effects of some chemicals on chromosomes.
and (6) Cells from onion root tips, (a) Typical effect of colchicine on
chromosomes; isolated chromosomes show lack of coiling and differences
in sizes.
(6) Cell in which the contraction has shortened the chromosomes
far below their normal lengths,
(c) Cells of maize treated with paradichlorobenzene which produces an effect very similar to that of colchicine.
(Courtesy of Dr. J. G. O'Mara; a and b in the Journal of Heredity;

Fig.

(«)

c in

Stain Technology.)

others in different genera.

With the disappearance of the spindle

and the cell remains in
this metaphase condition for a considerable time. In the meantime, cells in anaphase or telophase at the time of treatment
continue to divide until they pass into the resting stage, whereas
cells that had just begun to divide continue to do so until they
reach this irregular metaphase condition. In this way metaphase
naturally further division

is

inhibited,

figures gradually accumulate.

metaphase undergo some changes that give them an
abnormal appearance. The chromosomes contract and thicken
gradually and lose entirely their relational coils. The two chroCells in

matids lie side by side but are quite independent of one another
except at the centromere, where they remain attached (Fig. 137).

Sometimes they separate more or less and sometimes extend out

475

Colchicine
at right angles to one another to

produce X-shaped figures.

If

the treatment continues for a sufficiently long time the two chro-

matids separate at the centromere, and each lies in the cell as a
Thus the number of chromosomes is insingle chromosome.
diploid
to the tetraploid. In some chromosomes
creased from the
a

distinctly

double

appearance

is

noticed soon after the two chroma-

have completely separated.

tids
is

It

the result of a ^'split" in anticipa-

tion of the division to follow the one
in which they are, and has probably

occurred just before the separation
of

chromatids

the

into

individual

chromosomes.
This separation of
chromatids creates a cell with the
tetraploid number of chromosomes.

From

this

colchicine-metaphase

the chromosomes

may then go ap-

parently directly into a resting stage
or

may

go through the same

ab-

normal performance one or more
times to form octoploid cells or cells
with even higher multiples of chromosomes. Levan, in fact, has even

Fig. 138.

One of the meth-

ods used to apply colchicine
to

a

plant.

The

colchicine

solution is placed in a beaker

and the seedling

is

inverted

the grow-

reported finding onion root-tip cells

over it so that

with 500 to 1000 chromosomes as

ing points are in the solution.

the result of treatment with colchicine.
it

It

might be added here that

has become conventional to refer

all

(From Nebel and Ruttle

in

New York State Agricultural
Experiment Station Circular
183.)

metaphase resulting from colchicine treatment as a c-metaphase and to use such terms as
c-mitoses and c-treatment wherein the "c" obviously stands

to a

for "colchicine."

Various methods of applying the drug have been used.

The

treated parts are usually seeds or growing buds, and the colchicine is often applied in solutions varying from 0.1 to 0.8 per cent.

Treatment may be by soaking seeds, immersing a twig (Fig. 138)
applying one or more drops to a bud, spraying with an atomizer,
and wrapping a bud in a string, one end of which is in the solution.
Sometimes the colchicine has been applied in an emulsion

The Origin of Polyploids

476

of stearic acid, morpholine, or lanolin.

Other methods have also

been used.

Animals
Polyploidy is far less common in animals than in plants, but
some attempts have been made to induce polyploidy by the use

As in plants, the formation of the spindle appears
to be inhibited and dividing cells remain in metaphase. In most
animals, the treated cells do not proceed from c-metaphase mto
the following resting stage with a doubling of the number of
chromosomes, but degenerate, thus ending any possibility of
polyploidy. In a few experiments, cells with the double number
of chromosomes have been produced as the result of colchicine
of colchicine.

treatment, but they have not lived long or produced polyploid

organisms.

When colchicine was applied to eggs of Arbacia

remained in
metaphase when the concentration of the colchicine was above
punctata ten minutes after insemination, the
10"^

cell

but somewhat lower concentrations allowed the
nucleus to divide abnormally although cleavage was impeded.
At concentrations as low as 10~^ molar the rhythm of division
during the early cleavage stages is not affected, but the subsemolar,

quent development of the larvae is markedly stunted. Nebel
summarizes the effects of colchicine in increasing concentrations
as follows: normal cleavage is affected; astral rays fail to form;
the spindle is reduced in size; the spindle fails to form; the chromosomes become pycnotic and fail to divide normally.

In higher animals several interesting experiments have been
Pincus and Waddington subjected the fertilized
carried out.
rabbit egg developing in culture to dilute solutions of alcohol,
ether, or colchicine in different strengths and for different lengths

above the normal.
Good mitotic figures were observed for 40 eggs, and 15 of these
of time, or to brief exposure to temperatures

were tetraploids. Of these, 13 were from eggs treated with colchicine and 2 from eggs treated with ether or alcohol. Colchicine
prevents spindle formation and appears to inhibit cleavage by
inhibiting almost all cytoplasmic

nuclear activities.

movements and slowing down

The tetraploid ova ordinarily failed to cleave

during 24 hours, but a few did undergo cleavage at a subnormal
Treatment with colchicine solutions of 24-hour chick emrate.

bryos have been reported in a preliminary note by Higbee.

She

Callus Formation

477

obtained two males and two females from 20 injected eggs and

observed that the combs and wattles of all were approximately
twice the normal size and that two tail feathers of the roosters
were greatly elongated. A hen, kept in a cage with one rooster,
laid one nonhatching egg every two or three days.
Callus Formation

Polyploidy can be induced in certain genera merely by wound-

Lindstrom and Koos by chance obtained a haploid
tomato plant which had arisen spontaneously and had twelve
univalent chromosomes.
They decapitated this plant and removed all the axillary buds that appeared. Petrolatum was
placed over the cut end to keep the tissue fresh, and a healthy
callus formed over the cut surface. Within two weeks adventitious buds arose from the callus tissue, and many of them were
removed, rooted, and raised to maturity. In the callus tissue a
number of binucleate cells were observed, and in some of them
the two nuclei were observed to fuse. Probably as a result of
these binucleate cells, about 30 per cent of the adventitious buds
that were tested were found to be diploids. These diploid plants
obtained from the haploid by rooting the shoots that arose from
the adventitious buds showed twelve pairs of chromosomes and
were homozygous for all the genes investigated. Similar studies
were made by decapitating the diploids. From this wound tissue
about 30 per cent of the adventitious buds gave rise to tetraploid
plants. They showed low fertility and had forty-eight chromosomes, most of which formed quadrivalents. These polyploids
can be secured from the callus tissue in tomatoes that follows
an injury.
ing a plant.

In Nicotiana, another genus of the same family, callus tissue
does not form naturally as in the tomato. Greenleaf found that
by decapitating A^. sylvestris X tomentosa or N. sylvestris X tomentosiformis hybrids, and by covering the surface of the wound
with the growth hormone, indole-3-acetic acid in anhydrous lanolin (1 per cent), a callus tissue would be formed in which adventitious buds would arise. They developed into shoots which
were rooted and examined for polyploidy. Of 1973 plants examined, 270 or 13.7 per cent were tetraploid. About 1 per cent of
the shoots were octoploids, and some shoots with unbalanced
chromosome complements also arose. Interestingly, whereas in

The Origin of Polyploids

478

tomato adventitious shoots arise spontaneously from wounds
covered with lanolin, they are not formed when the lanolin contains indole-3-acetic acid.

Chromosomal Chimeras

Some adventitious buds that arise from callus tissue appear to
have arisen from a region on the surface of the wound that has
contained both diploid and tetraploid cells, for some shoots ap-

pear to be of mixed nature.

Jorgensen found a nightshade plant

with a diploid core covered with a tetraploid skin and a tomato
shoot that was also composed of both 2n and 4n tissue.

A plant

that consists of genotypically diverse tissue is a chimera, and if
the different kinds of tissue differ with respect to

chromosome

number, the plant is a chromosomal chimera.

Chromosomal chimeras have been produced in Datura by
Blakeslee and his co-workers by treating seeds of diploids with
colchicine.

After the treatment, the germinating seeds were

found to be mixtures of 2n and 4?i tissue.

In some, periclinal

chromosome chimeras were produced in which the cells of the
inner part of the branches was 2n and those of the outer parts
were 4n. The valuable feature of this work is that in the developing shoot the 2n and 4n cells can be distinguished readily by
their size.
Other chimeras contained Sn tissue, which was also
distinguishable from the diploid and tetraploid cells. By studying various periclinal chimeras which differed with respect to
.the chromosomal constitution of the outer and inner regions, it
was possible to identify the three independent germ layers of
the shoot and floral apices and to determine the contribution of
each germ layer to the formation of each organ. This ability to
distinguish the products of various germ layers has been of great
value in ontogenetic studies. Chromosomal chimeras, both periclinal and sectorial, have been reported by Dermen in cranberry.
In this plant also they are valuable for studies of histogenesis of

primary tissues and the ontogeny of various plant organs.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

In a certain area plants of Tradescantia paludosa (n = 6) and

hybrids (n = 12) between T. canaliculata and T. hirsutiflora were growing near one another.

Tetraploid hybrids were found with characters

Questions and Problems
of all three species.

479

Show how such trispecific tetraploids might have

arisen.
2.

Which should be easier:

tetraploids

(a) to obtain triploids if you have only

and diploids or (6) to obtain tetraploids if you have only

triploids and diploids?
3.

Which should be easier:

(a) to obtain triploids

if

you have only

tetraploids or (b) to obtain tetraploids if you have only triploids?
4.

If

a chemical could be found that

is

as successful in producing

haploids as colchicine is in producing polyploids, how could homozygous

true-breeding strains be developed rapidly?

Chapter 29

THE DETERMINATION OF SEX
One of the important problems to geneticists is reproduction
and especially that type of reproduction designated as "sexual
reproduction."

It

is

so not only because all genes present in

succeeding generations become present in each individual at the
time of reproduction but also because the segregation of alleles

and the reassortment of genie combinations that make up so
much of the body of genetics occur only as a product of sexual
reproduction.

In addition, of course, the genetic ratios obtained

from certain characters indicate that they are intimately connected with sex. While geneticists have been studying the problem of sex ever since the science of genetics was founded, a definition of sex or of sexual reproduction

is

not easily constructed.

Sexual reproduction certainly involves certain cells called gam-

They arise in animals directly by meiosis and in plants
from the gametophyte generation which came directly from
In either form, the gametes
spores produced by meiosis.
have half or approximately half the number of chromosomes
etes.

found at some other stage in the

life

cycle.

These gametes

by a process called fertilization, but sometimes
they produce a new individual without any such union. In some
of the lower forms of life the gametes that unite are alike morphologically and in some organisms probably physiologically as
well, but in the higher animals and plants the gametes are dis-

usually unite

tinctly different.

gamete

is

produced

logical respects
in

Often the individuals in which one type of
differ in

many morphological and physio-

from those in which the other type is found, but

many plants even this distinction is largely obscured because

the two types of gamete-bearing plants are located in one sporo-

phyte.

All these various illustrations can be classified as sexual

reproduction, which might be defined for our purposes as repro-

duction involving gametes.
480

Balance Theory of Sex

481

ANIMALS
Sex Chromosomes

The relation of chromosomes to sex determination was pointed
out in Chapter 5.

In Drosophila, human beings, and other mam-

X chromosomes and the male is XY,
but in some animals the male has one X chromosome but no Y.

mals, the female has two

In moths, butterflies, birds and some

fish

the

female

is

the

There is some question how the sex chromosomes in animals of this type should be designated. Originally,
the sex chromosomes of the female were designated Z and W, and
the male was said to be'ZZ. Reasoning that it is unnecessary
and Y can be
when
to use the additional symbols Z and
used for the sex chromosomes in all organisms irrespective of
whether the male or the female is heterogametic, some geneticists
and Y for the sex chromosomes in the female
use the symbols
for the
of animals in which the female is heterogametic and
males of such forms. Thus the symbols are the same as those
of the Drosophila except that the sexes are reversed with respect
to the chromosome constitution of the sex chromosomes. Castle,
be used to indicate a sex chromohowever, has suggested that
some with a female tendency and Y one with a male tendency.
If this scheme is carried out, Castle points out that in the
Abraxas or bird type the female should be XY and the male
YY. Although the choice of symbols is largely a matter of prefheterogametic sex.

W

X

X

XX

X

erence, the use of both

XX and YY by different geneticists for

the male with the accompanying reversal in meaning of the "X"
and ''Y" in the female of moths and birds is a little confusing.

For that reason, largely, the older system

of

ZW and ZZ has

been adopted in this book.

Balance Theory of Sex

With a mechanism such as the sex chromosome mechanism in
Drosophila melanog aster,

it is

possible that maleness might be

determined by the presence of a Y chromosome or that femalechromosomes. So far as the
ness migjit be determined by two

X

evidence from diploid organisms

is

concerned, either possibility

Further evidence from organisms which
are polyploids or aneuploids, however, indicate that the second

is philosophically sound.

The Determination of Sex

482

According to this evidence, the
chromosome contains one or probably a nmiiber of femaledetermining genes, whereas numerous male-determining genes
possibility

is

the correct one.

X

are located in the autosomes (or at least the balance of the sex-

determining genes in the autosomes

is

male-determining)

;

the

ratio of the sex chromosomes to the autosomes is the important

consideration.

In a normal female, there are two
of autosomes so that the ratio

only one

X chromosome

is

1

is

X chromosomes and two sets
:

1,

but in the normal male

present and the ratio is 1

:

2.

Appar-

ently the male-tendency genes in the autosomes are not so ef-

which are in the
chromosome
for
1
ratio
typical
X
a 1
produces a
female, and
the normal male appears only when there are twice as many sets
fective as the female-tendency gene or genes
:

of autosomes as

X chromosomes.

Intermediate between these

normal individuals are the intersexes which Bridges has described. These forms can be considered as modified triploids and
chromosomes. Conhave three sets of autosomes but only two
chromosomes to sets of autosomes is
sequently the ratio of

X

X

With respect to their ratios these flies are intermediate
between females and males, and in their external appearance
they are complex mixtures of both female and male characters.
They are not all alike and vary from some that have mostly
male characters to others that are largely female-like. Very few
1

:

1.5.

lack the sex comb, a structure normally found on the forelegs of
males.

Intersexes are mixtures of phenotypically female-like

and male-like parts although they are not composed of genetically
male and female parts, for all the cells of an intersex have the
same genetic constitution. Apparently during development each
structure can develop only as in a female or as in a male and
cannot be intermediate. Apparently each fly starts to develop as
a male and subsequently switches over and develops as a female.
The earlier this switch occurs, the more female-like will be the
fly.
If they develop late in ontogeny, male characters are less
and female characters more likely to be normal. Intersexes are
sterile.

an individual possessing three sets of autosomes has only
one
chromosome, its ratio is 1 3. Such flies are supermales.
Their viability is poor and they are highly sterile. At the other
chromosomes
end of the list are the superfemales with three
If

X

:

X

Intersexes in Lymantria

483

but only two sets of autosomes.
of 1.5
sterile.

:

These aneuploids have a ratio
and are females but have poor viability and are highly
Thus, the higher the ratio of
chromosomes to auto-

1

X

somes, the greater the tendency towards femaleness.

That the Y chromosome does not determine maleness in Drosophila is also shown in flies in which this chromosome had become lost as the result of a meiotic abnormality. Such flies have
one X chromosome and two sets of autosomes but are typical
males.
They are sterile, however, but this is another matter.
Although the Y chromosome does not have an effect on sex determination it does contain genes for male fertility which are

necessary for the production of a fertile male.

That the Y chro-

mosome is not the determining factor in sex is further supported
by aberrant diploid individuals such as the attached-X type in
which two sets of autosomes, two X chromosomes, and one Y
chromosome are present. These individuals are females in spite
Thus the absence of a
of the presence of the Y chromosome.
Y chromosome does not prevent a fly from being a male whereas

Y does not cause a fly to be a male.
Although the ratio of X chromosomes to autosomes is oper-

the presence of a

ative in determining sex in Drosophila mekinog aster, it is not a

universal mechanism.

Kosswig has shown that in Platypoecilus

xiphidium, a fish, the determining factor is the ratio of the auto-

somes to the Y chromosomes, and later in this chapter we discuss
at length the plant Lychnis [Melandrium) dioica, in which the
chromosome and the malefemale-tendency genes are in the
tendency genes in the Y chromosome.

X

Intersexes in Lymantria

A number of intersexes of different grades have been found
between different geographical races of the Gypsy
moth, Lymantria dispar. They range from normal males through
various stages of low intersexuality and high intersexuality to
females which are genetically males but have undergone a sex
reversal, or from normal females through all grades of intersexes
These intersexes have
to males which are genetically females.
in crosses

formed the basis of Goldschmidt's quantitative theory of sex
determination. In Lymantria the females are the heterogametic
individuals so that, according to the notation we have adopted in
In
this book, the females would be ZW and the males ZZ.

The Determination of Sex

484

between individuals of the same race or strain, all ZW
individuals are females and all ZZ moths are males. The problem of intersexes and sex reversal arises only when races or
strains from different localities are crossed and even then not in
every such cross. To explain such results, Goldschmidt has ascrosses

sumed the presence of a female-determining substance located
in the cytoplasm and a male-determining substance found in the
Z chromosome. The relative strengths of these substances within
any one race are such that two doses of male-determining substance as found in the two Z chromosomes in a male overcome
the action of the female-determining substance produced by its
cytoplasm.

This female-determining substance, however, is suf-

ficiently potent to overcome the action of the single dose of male-

determining substance in the female.

If

we assign the symbol

"F" to the female-determining substance in the cytoplasm and
"M" to the male-tendency genes in one Z chromosome, the
and of a male is F / ]MM, where
formula of a female is F /
> F and F > M.
sex determiners differ in potency or valency
Both the F and

M

MM

M

in different races, although their relative strengths are

approx-

Thus there are strong and
weak F's and strong and weak M's. If a strong F and a weak
are combined in a race, which is crossed with races that have
M's of different strength, individuals that are ZZ and therefore
imately the same in every race.

M

genetically males will result which might not be phenotypically

males.

If the

M-determiner introduced

is

strong

(of

highest

valency), it may be sufficiently powerful to overcome the strong

F-determiners in the cytoplasm, and the offspring will be males.
If the

M-determiner is intermediate, the offspring may be an

intersex; but if the M-determiner is very weak, the strong female-

determining substance may be sufficiently powerful to overcome
the male-determining substances of both the weak M's even when
their action

is

combined.

Such individuals will be genetically

males but will be phenotypically females and will therefore be
sex reversals.

In one such test a strong F from a Tokyo race

was combined with a very weak
Japan.

M from a race from Hokkaido,

They were crossed with races from various parts of Eu-

rope and Asia which varied with respect to the valency of M.

These crosses produced a very interesting series of intersexes.

It

Other Intersexes

485

probable that the M-determiners are actually genes at one
locus and that the different strengths are produced by at least
is

eight genes that form a series of multiple alleles.

Other Intersexes
In Drosophila
flies

virilis

Lebedeff has found intersexes in diploid

as the result of a single autosomal gene, ix"\

allele of this gene, Ix"^ is a

the third chromosome.

The wild-type

gene for maleness and is located in

It produces a male tendency which reacts

with a female tendency produced by gene 'F, located in the

X

The /a:'" gene and the F gene are assumed to be
equally potent, and the sex of the fly is determined by the balance between these genes. This balance is maintained by a set
of suppressors which inhibit the activity of the Ix"^ gene when
These suppressors are
it is opposed by an equal dose of F genes.
chromosome.

believed to be neutral so far as sex determination is concerned

and to act merely as the suppressors of sex genes. Two suppressors have been found, both dominant genes. They are gene
Ss, located in the third chromosome, and gene S, whose location
has not been determined.
In individuals which are genotypically F Ix"^Ix"^ the male
tendency of the two Ix"^ genes is so much more potent than the
female tendency produced by the F gene that such individuals
are male even if the 7a:"* suppressors are present. FF Ix"^Ix"^ flies,
however, are females because suppressors S^Ss SS are normally
also present and suppress the male tendency to such an extent
that the two F genes overcome the two Ix"'' genes and the individual

is

a female.

The ix^ allele is also a male-determining

gene but is much stronger in its action than Ix^.

Because of the

suppressors, the Ix'"' and F genes are in a balanced condition in

the 2X

:

2A individuals so that whether an individual is male or

female is determined by the number of F genes and, since one F
gene is in one

X chromosome, therefore, by the number of X chro-

When the recessive ix''^ is
homozygous, the balance attained in the 2X 2A system if Ix"''
is present is overcome in part, and individuals with two F genes
are not females but sterile males. If only one F gene is present,

mosomes in the diploid individual.

:

If a fly is

FF ix"Hx"^ and has the sup-

pressors of the ix'"' gene, it is female.

However, if the suppressors

the individual

is

male.

The Determination of Sex

486

are not present, such individuals are converted into males which

are sterile because the two ix™ genes are more potent than the

A number of other modifying genes which delay
the transformation of FF ix^ix"^ females into males is also prestwo F genes.
ent.

This delay causes the individuals to be intersexes possessing

both ovaries and testes instead of males.
Drosophila virilis is not the only species of that genus in which
diploid intersexes have been found that have resulted from the

As in D. virilis, a recessive gene is the
causative agent for certain intersexes in D. simulans, but in D.
pseudoobscura intersexes have been produced by a dominant
gene. In the last species, Dobzhansky and Spassky have found
that most of the diploid intersexes have two sets of genital ducts
and external genitalia, one of which is almost always more
Befemale-like whereas the other is usually more male-like.
cause of these two sets of reproductive organs, these intersexes
action of a single gene.

could also be termed hermaphrodites.

There is, however, only

one pair of gonads so that these aberrant

flies

have generally

been regarded as intersexes rather than hermaphrodites.

The

was revealed by a cytological examination which showed that they possessed two X
chromosomes and two sets of autosomes, and they arose as a
result of a dominant gene whose normal allele is believed not
to be involved in any way in the mechanism of sex determination.
intersexes were genetically females, as

Heteropycnosis

One physical feature of the X chromosome in many animals
In the heterogametic sex of a number
is of considerable interest.
of animals the sex chromosomes are much more condensed durSuch chromosomes, therefore, are much more compact and stain more deeply

ing certain stages of division than the autosomes.

They are said to be heteropycnotic
The conheteropycnosis (Fig. 139).

than the other chromosomes.

and the phenomenon

is

densed condition is often noticeable during the period of growth
of the spermatocytes.

nature of the

Because of the compact, deeply staining

X chromosome during this stage,

it

ance of a karyosome or chromosome-nucleolus.

has the appear-

Because of the

between these heteropycnotic sex chromosomes and the autosomes, the sex chromosomes were once
difference in appearance

Heteropycnosis
called heterochromosomes to differentiate

487

them from the auto-

somes, which were then called euchromosomes.

The particular stage of the life cycle at which the sex chromosomes show heteropycnosis appears to vary in different animals,
and in some it does not appear to occur at all. It sometimes is
found after the first spermatogonial division in animals in which
the male is the heterogametic sex, and less frequently is found
in the spermatogonia.
In some organisms the heteropycnotic

Fig. 139.

(b)

late

Heteropycnotic chromosome A of Phrynotettix (a) diplotene;
(Courtesy of Dr. D. H. Wem-ich in Bulletin oj the
:

prophase.

Museum of Comparative Anatomy of Harvard

University.)

condition is observed in the prophase stages of the

first

meiotic

division, or division of the primary spermatocyte, and it is frequently seen in the interkinetic stage between the two spermato-

cyte divisions.

It is also

found in the spermatids for a consid-

erable time after the second meiotic division.

Heteropycnosis has recently been used by S. G. Smith to differentiate the

two sexes during early stages of development in
It was desired to de-

the spruce budworm, Archips jumijerana.

termine the sex ratio before high mortality occurs during larval

development to learn whether

this

mortality

Fortunately,

the

sex

sexes

differently.

aft'ects

the two

chromosome remains

heteropycnotic in the resting cells of the female of this animal
in

many different kinds of somatic tissue, and especially in the

large cells of the silk glands.

Since the female is heterogametic

in this organism, the heteropycnotic chromosome is found in that

sex (Fig. 140).

By examining the silk glands for cells with heter-

opycnotic chromosomes the sex can be determined during an
early stage of development.

The Determination of Sex

488

Chromosome Elimination
Several peculiar features have been observed in the behavior of
chromosomes of the fly Sciara by Metz and his co-workers. In

some species, in addition to the usual autosomes and sex chromo-

FiG. 140.

Heteropycnosis of the sex chromosome in the spruce budworm,
cells of silk glands of male showing no heteropyc-

Archips jmniferana: (a)
nosis;

showing heteropycnotic chromosome ap(Courtesy of Dr. S. G. Smith in the Journal

(b) similar cells of female

pearing as a large, dark lump.
of Heredity.)

somes, which together have been designated in this organism the

"ordinary" chromosomes, there is also another type of chromo-

and often of greater diameter than the
ordinary chromosomes.
These peculiar chromosomes are the
"limited" chromosomes and appear to contain few, if any, genes.
In some species each fly must have one complete limited chromosome if *it is to develop normally, although this chromosome must
be necessary only for the proper development of the gonads and

some which

is

larger

Chromosome Elimination

489

early cleavage stages since it is eliminated from the somatic cells

during an early stage of somatic development.

One or two addi-

tional limited chromosomes may apparently also be present with-

out any resulting serious effect, but three is the largest number

These chromosomes appear to
break up readily into fragments without any harmful effect.
They also remain heteropycnotic in the primary spermatocyte,
which would suggest that they may represent a true sex chromosome that had lost its function since, as we have just seen, sex
chromosomes in other organisms may remain heteropycnotic.
One of the peculiar features of the chromosomes in Sciara is
ever observed in one individual.

chromosome elimination. In *S. coprophila (Fig. 141) the zygote
may receive two rod-shaped and one V-shaped autosome from
the egg and similar chromosomes from the sperm. The egg may
also contribute one limited chromosome and one X chromosome
whereas the sperm adds two limited chromosomes and two X
chromosomes. The germ line and soma become set apart from
one another during the

first

few cleavage divisions of the egg.

At the fifth or sixth cleavage division the mitoses of the somatic
line show certain peculiarities not found in the usual mitoses.
During either of these divisions all the chromosomes behave
normally except the limited chromosomes. The daughter halves
of these chromosomes separate normally but do not pass along
the spindle to the opposite poles.

They

lag on or near the

equator and do not become included in the daughter nuclei, but
they remain by themselves in the cytoplasm where they go

through the usual mitotic changes for one or two divisions.
Eventually they degenerate. At the seventh or eighth cleavage

somewhat similar elimination of the X chromosomes
occurs. One X chromosome becomes eliminated from eggs destined to produce females, and there is reason to believe that this
is one of the two X chromosomes that entered from the sperm.
However, two X chromosomes are eliminated from eggs destined
to produce males, and it appears that both are X chromosomes
that were contributed by the male parent.
In addition to this unusual elimination of chromosomes from
division a

an elimination from the
germ cells, a process which, until recently, has not been so well
somatic

cells,

there

is

also apparently

This elimination appears to occur at a later stage
than elimination from the somatic line and in all eggs apparently
understood.

The Determination of Sex

490

Vvf

(/»

li
3

t

z

^

Chromosome Eliviination

491

X chromosomes that have been derived
from the male parent, thus leaving in the germ line of all eggs
one
chromosome which came from the mother and one which
came from the father. One or more of the limited chromosomes
must also be eliminated from the germ line as otherwise their
number would increase with each generation.
Further behavior of the cells in the germ line after the eliminainvolves one of the two

X

tion of the

X chromosome

is

also of interest.

Oogenesis is similar

most organisms. The chromosomes pair normally at zygotene and show no peculiarities. There are three
pairs of autosomes and two paired X chromosomes, and one
to that found in

member of each pair is subsequently found in the egg. In species
with two limited chromosomes, these also pair and separate

same manner as the autosomes. The regular behavior at
oogenesis and at spermatogenesis, however, is quite in contrast.
In the primary spermatocyte there is no zygotene pairing, and
later only one pole is present instead of the more usual two.
When the chromosomes pass to the pole, only the autosomes and
X chromosome of maternal origin pass to the single pole; but all
the limited chromosomes that may be present also pass to this
pole.
The paternal X chromosome and the three autosomes
which had been contributed by the male parent move away from
the pole and become pinched off from the egg, and in that way
in the

they are eliminated from further activity. In the division of
the secondary spermatocyte, the achromatic figure is bipolar, but
one pole develops before the other.

All the chromosomes "split"

X

chromonormally except one, which evidence indicates is the
some. This
chromosome moves towards the first pole formed
before the daughter halves of the remaining chromosomes separate; it therefore has been termed the "precocious" chromosome.
When the second pole forais, the daughter halves of all but the

X

precocious chromosome separate in the usual manner; and the

halves of the

X chromosome separate from one another but

remain at the same pole.

The group of chromosomes which lacks

X chromosome then degenerates, and the other group with
the halves of the X chromosome remains functional. All the
the

sperms, therefore, are identical, and each contains only maternal

chromosomes.
chromosome during
Berry has studied the elimination of an
the development of the germ cells and has found that in both

X

The Determination of Sex

492
sexes an

X chromosome

a resting stage.

is

eliminated from the germ cells during

He studied Sciara ocellaris, but there is no

reason to suppose that the behavior of this species and of S.
coprophila is different. That some elimination must occur ap-

peared from the fact that the zygote contains nine chromosomes

whereas the gonads of the early larval stages have only eight.
When oogenesis and spermatogenesis occur, only six autosomes

and two X chromosomes are present.

This species has no limited

Fig. 142.
Method of chromosome elimination in Sciara ocellans. The
chromosome to be eliminated comes into contact with the nuclear mem-

brane and migrates through it apparently autonomously into the cytoplasm.
(Courtesy of Dr. R. O. Berry in the Proceedings of the National

Academy of Sciences.)
chromosomes.

Genetic evidence indicates that the missing chro-

mosome is one of the two X chromosomes of paternal origin.
Berry has reported that the chromosomes are not eliminated from
the germ cells during their cleavage stages, as is true of the
somatic cells, but that a chromosome is eliminated after the germ
cells have moved into their position in the gonads.
During this
migration and for a considerable period thereafter, the germ cells
are in the resting stage; but the chromosomes appear as definite
but diffuse bodies or prochromosomes (Fig. 142). During this
resting stage, one chromosome moves towards the nuclear membrane and then apparently passes through it into the cytoplasm.
This peculiar action occurs approximately simultaneously in all
the germ cells of a given individual and at the same stage of
development in all individuals. After it has passed into the
cytoplasm, this eliminated chromosome remains there for several
days and then degenerates.

493

Potentialities
Potentialities

The sex chromosomes are undoubtedly

factors in the deter-

mination of sex, but they alone are not adequate to explain some

and sex reversals.

intersexes

One suggestion that has received

considerable support, although in several varying forms, is that

have the potentialities for both maleness and femalecells the male potentiality predominates, but in
others the female potentiality becomes expressed. All the genes
cells

all

ness.

In some

for both sexes are present in each cell, although the

XY- or ZW-

mechanisms result in a difference in the quantitative relationThus XX indiships of these genes in different individuals.
viduals would have more female-tendency genes than XY individuals and, other things being equal, would be female rather
than male. In some organisms this strictly quantitative relationship is itself not the only important factor. In Lymantria genes
for both maleness and femaleness are present, but each type
Strong male
exists in several forms which differ in strength.
genes, combined with weak female genes in an organism that
would be female according to its chromosomes, would develop in
a male direction and end up a female intersex, whereas weak male
genes, combined with strong female genes, might convert an
expected male into a female. Goldschmidt has suggested that, in
the

first

example, the organism starts out as a female, but the

strong male genes exert such an influence that a "Drehpunkt" or

"turning point" is reached, after which the individual develops

The organs or tissues that develop during the earliest
stage of ontogeny and right up to the Drehpunkt become female;
those that develop after this turning point are male. The inter-

as a male.

an individual in which every organ and every
tissue are intermediate between the two sexes but one in which
some organs are wholly female, others wholly male, and some
are mixtures of both male and female tissues. In the male type
of intersex, the first-formed organs and tissues are male whereas
sex, then, is not

those that develop during later developmental periods are female.

A similar explanation has been offered for the triploid intersexes
in Drosophila.

Although all cells may have both male and female potentialities so

that organs and tissues

may develop in either way ac-

cording to the ratio of male-determining and female-determining

The Determination of Sex

494

genes and also according to the relative strengths of these two

kinds of genes, environmental conditions may also influence the

way these potentialities are realized.

It is especially true for

certain species of animal.

Hormonal Control

The suggestion that all cells and therefore all animals are pomale and female is supported by a consideration
One of the
of sex reversals in some of the higher animals.
This animal started
classical cases is the famous Crew's hen.
out as a normal hen that produced normal eggs. Apparently a
tuberculosis of the ovary developed which completely destroyed
that organ. The disappearance of the ovary stopped the secretion of ovarian hormones, and thereupon the fowl ceased to be a
hen. Female birds contain in addition to normal ovaries a small,
rudimentary testis that normally remains dormant but springs
into activity as soon as the ovary ceases to function. When this
ovary was destroyed, this testis developed, secreted male hormones, and converted this hen into a rooster which developed
male external characters and a male sexual behavior. As a hen
it had produced fertile eggs, and as a rooster it became the father
of two chickens.
This example shows that external conditions
may influence development and completely reverse a certain sex
pattern.
It also shows that internal secretions from the sex
glands themselves may operate throughout the life of an individual to maintain its sex. These secretions are merely examples
tentially both

of a large class of such internal secretions

known as hormones.

These hormones are secreted by various organs in the body, diffuse to other regions, and exert certain specific effects on these
other regions.

The "freemartin" in cattle is another excellent example of the
effect of certain

hormones upon sex.

In cattle twins are some-

times present of such a chromosomal constitution that one would

be a male and the other a female.

During their early embryonic
development blood may pass freely from the one to the other
and, if so, may carry hormones from one to the other. Apparently the male hormone in the one twin develops first and establishes that twin as a male.
The female hormone develops later
in the other twin and establishes it fundamentally as a female;
but before the production of this female hormone, male hormone

Hermaphrodites

495

from the male twin had entered into the female and had started
some of its structures to develop in a male direction. The result
of the two types of hormones in the developing female is a
sterile female with some decidedly male characters. Even though
the later-developing female hormone diffuses into the male, the

male animal has developed so far at the time that the female
hormone has no apparent effect. The situation responsible for
the circulation of blood from one twin into the other is peculiar
to cattle. Lillie showed that in cattle the twins develop a com-

mon circulation so that the female twin is actually supplied with
blood that contains the male hormone. In other animals twinning is not accompanied by such anastomisis of the fetal circulatory systems, and no freemartin is produced.

Environmental Control
In Crew's hen, the removal of the ovary by disease controlled
the sex of the individual. Similar results may be brought about
experimentally during early development by the artificial removal of sex organs and the grafting of organs of the opposite
sex and by artificially injecting into an animal the sex hormones
of the opposite sex.
Such methods show that the environment
plays a considerable part in determining the sex of an individual
that

is

potentially both a male

and a female.

A classical ex-

by the marine
ample of the effect of environment
worm Bonellia. The young individuals are potentially both male
and female. When they are in the young larval stage, they swim
about freely. If one comes into contact with an adult female
and becomes attached to it, that larva develops into a male;
but if a larva fails to locate on a female and merely undergoes
its later development on the bottom of the ocean, it becomes a
female. Sex develops comparatively late in these animals and
according to the environment of the animal during its later larval
is

illustrated

development.

Hermaphrodites
Hermaphrodites, as we pointed out in Chapter 4, are individuals that produce both male and female gametes. Thus such
an individual is both male and female at the same time. This
situation is found as a normal feature of the life cycle of some of

the lower animals, such as the

common earthworm.

It

may

The Determination of Sex

496

appear in some of the higher forms as an abnormal condition,
but it is doubtful whether true hermaphrodites are ever found

among mammals.

Certain intersexes such as the diploid inter-

sexes of Drosophila pseudoobscura might be regarded as her-

maphrodites because they possess two sets of reproductive organs,
one male-like and the other female-like. Dobzhansky and Spassky, however, prefer to regard them merely as intersexes because
the reproductive organs that are present consist of genital ducts

and external genitalia, but not gonads. It is probably preferable
to restrict the term hermaphrodite to those animals in which
actual, functional gonads of both sexes are present. These intersexes, however, approach the true hermaphroditic condition much
more closely than the triploid intersexes of Drosophila or the
diploid intersexes of Lymantria.

Gynandromorphs
In a few species individuals have been found, although rarely,
which are composed of both genetically male and genetically
female tissues. The two types of tissue may differ in extent,
and theoretically such an individual may vary from a condition
in which exactly half the body is of one sex and the other half
is of the other sex to a state in which only one cell is male and
the remainder of the body is composed of female tissue. Many
sexual mosaics are bilaterally symmetrical; that is, one half the
body is male and the other half female, and the boundary is the
midventral line that runs lengthwise through the center of the
body. This condition appears to arise during very early embryology in those animals in which the first cleavage division divides
the fertilized egg into two cells, each of which will ultimately
develop into one side of the body. If at about this first cleavage
in an
female one of the
chromosomes is lost or otherwise
inactivated in one of the two cells, the side of the body which
develops from it will be male whereas the side that develops
chromosomes
from the cell which has retained two functional

X

XX

X

will be female.

A mitotic or other abnormality occurring at the first cleavage
division cannot so readily explain gynanders in insects, for insects

do not undergo cleavage divisions in the same manner as most
animals, and the first cleavage does not divide the right from the
left side.

In insects, the egg is centrolecithal.

The nucleus lies

Gynandromorphs

497

yolk in the center of a large egg and is surrounded by
some cytoplasm. It divides into two nuclei, each of which lies
in the

yolk mass and

in the

is

also surrounded

by some cytoplasm.

These then divide into a number of nuclei with cytoplasm, all
lying within the yolk towards the center of the egg. Thus early
embryology in insects is very difTerent from that of other animals, but even if the early development were the same in all
animals it is possible that in insects the effect of abnormalities
during cleavage might be lost subsequently at metamorphosis.

A sharp median separation often appears in insects, but it is the
growth of the imaginal discs rather than
In Habrobracon, on the other hand, very few
of cleavage.
gynanders and other mosaics are divided into male and female

result of synchronous

halves with the boundary the midventral line; most are more or
less

scrambled, several very much so.

Individuals with both genetically male and female tissues are

gynandromorphs or gynanders.

called

Gynandromorphs

differ

from intersexes. Intersexes are genetically alike throughout their
bodies on the contrary, however, gynandromorphs consist of two
;

genetically different kinds of tissue.

Some cells are genetically

male and other cells are genetically female.
Gynandromorphs have been found in Drosophila melanogaster,
in which one side of the body is male and the other female, and
the interpretation that has been given assumes that the male
side has lost one of the X chromosomes. If the fly is heterozygous for a number of genes on the X chromosome, the female
side of the gynander will be phenotypically the expression of
The male side,
all the dominant genes on both chromosomes.
and redominants
the
either
however, will be the expression of
cessives on one or the other X chromosome, depending upon
which is lost. In so far as the genes on the autosomes are concerned, the fly will be identical on both sides of its body.
This gynandromorphic condition may theoretically result from
chromosome from a somatic cell, with
a complete loss of one
the result that all the cells that arise from this cell or from
chromosome and will be XO,
its descendants will lack one
whereas the remainder of the body will be XX. Such a loss could
result from an abnormal mitosis in which probably one of the
X chromosomes failed to be included in a daughter nucleus and
became embedded in the cytoplasm, where it degenerated. On

X

X

The Determination of Sex

498

the other hand, this condition could also result from a nondis-

junction of an

X chromosome resulting in some XO cells and

other cells which would be XXX.

In such a gynander part of
the body would be male and the remainder would be superThe actual chromosomal situation has not been confemale.
firmed by visual observations of the chromosomes, and, as superfemale tissue is not easy to differentiate from normal female
tissue, it

may well be that at least some of the gynanders are

XO in one part of their body and XXX in the other.
sible also that gynanders

It is pos-

may result not from the loss of a com-

X chromosome but merely from a deletion (or inactivation) of the female-determining genes in one of the X chromoplete

In such gynanders, however, the male region would
not show the loss of any sex-linked genes unless they happened
somes.

to be in the deleted region.

In gynanders, the extent of the male tissue will depend upon
chromosome was
the particular cell division at which the
eliminated and, of course, upon cell lineage, which may be

X

chromosome elimination occurred during the division of the zygote, half the body would be male and half
female; but if it occurred during some subsequent division the
amount of male tissue would be less. In all gynanders, however,

variable.

If

probable that the individual started out as a female. These
flies often cannot function as either sex because of the abnormal
it is

condition of their sex organs but some gynanders are fertile, having sex organs of one type only.

Habrobracon

Gynandromorphs have thrown some light on the determinaThe
tion of sex in the parasitic wasp, Habrobracon juglandis.
females in this species are diploid and the males are hapbut inbreeding always produces diploid males which are
highly sterile unless selection against them is very rigid. Sex
loid,

appears to be determined largely by the presence of different
alleles of the sex factor

which is present as a series of multiple

alleles, xa, xb, xc, etc.

The rules for the formulation of genetic

symbols indicate that superscripts should be used for multiple
alleles, in which case the symbols here should be x'^, x^ x'^, etc.
However, the other symbols have been used for a number of years
by the workers with Habrobracon and will be used here.

Habrobracon

499

Females are always heterozygous for two of the series of multiple alleles and may therefore be xa / xb, xa / xc or some other
combination of two of the series. Males are normally haploid
and therefore have only one of the alleles, but some males are
diploid and are homozygous for any one of the series. Normal
males might be either xa or xb. If an xa male mated with the
xa I xb female, the offspring would be xa /xb females, xa males,
xb males, and oca / xa diploid males. If the male used in the cross
was an xb individual, the offspring from the same female would
be xa / xb females, xa males, xb males, and xb / xb diploid males.
The xa and xb haploid males are indistinguishable phenotypically.
Since femaleness is determined only when xa and xb sex alleles
(or some other combination) interact, this appears to be a case of
complementary genes. Although the stock that was just described
contained only the xa and xb genes, another stock might contain
only xc and xd. In this stock, females would be xc / xd and haploid males xc or xd, but diploid males would be produced by
crosses within the stock and would be .re / xc or xd / xd. If the
two stocks are crossed together, no diploid males are produced.
For example, an xa / xb female mated with an xc male would produce xa / xc and xb /xc females and xa and xb males, but no males
with two sex genes or with the gene xc. In Habrobracon all
heterozygotes are female whereas all homozygotes and all haploids are males.

A sex-linked gene, fused, has been studied extensively and appears to be linked with the x genes with 10 per cent crossing over
(Fig. 143).

If an orange-eyed, oo, female heterozygous for fused,

Fufu, is mated to a black-eyed, 0, fused haploid male, the diploid
males and females will be black-eyed and the haploid males will be
orange.

In this way, the two chromosomal types of males can be

distinguished.

If the cross is between members of the same stock,

as xb Fu / xafuX xa ju, the diploid offspring will segregate into

9 nonfused females
1

fused female

1

r
J
nomused
male

1

9 fused males

1

xh Fu / xa fu
xh fu / xa fu\
/Crossovers
/
r,
xa tu
/ xa fu/
J-

xa fu / xa fu

and the haploid males will be in the ratio of 1 nonfused (9 xb Fu
and IxaFu) to 1 fused {9 xa fu and Ixbfu). If the original
cross is xb Fu /xa fu X ^b fu, or xa Fu / xb fu X ^cl fu or xa

The Determination of Sex

500

Fu / xb fu X ocb fu, a 9

1
1
9 ratio will also be found among
These sex-linked ratios lend great support to
the explanation based on complementary genes.
If the cross is an outcross (that is, if the male carries an allele
:

:

:

the diploid wasps.

not present in the female), the ju gene will still be linked with

A fused female of Hahrobracon juglandis. The short antennae,
and palpi with segments fused together, and the indentation near the
tip of the costal margin of the primary wing are characteristic of the
fused mutant and segregate together as a single hereditary unit. (Courtesy,
Dr. P. W. Whiting in the Journal of Heredity.)
Fig. 143.

tarsi

the X alleles, but such linkage will be masked.

In the cross

xa Fu / xb fu X ^c fu, all the diploid offspring will be fen^ale and
will segregate into

9 nonfused females
1
1

fused female
nonfused female

9 fused females

xa Fu / xc fu
xa fu I xc fu\^
xb Fu / xc fiv
xb fu

>crossovers

I xc fu

Half the females will be wild type and half will be fused; therefore, there will

sex linked.

be no evidence to indicate that the fused gene is

The same result would be obtained from the cross

xb Fu / xafuX xc fu.

The first clue to the presence of complementary genes as sex
determiners was afforded by the study of certain haploid males.

Hahrobracon

501

True gynanders appear occasionally in Habrobracon and consist
and part haploid male tissue. In some
eggs of this wasp, two haploid nuclei are present. If the female
is homozygous for any recessive gene, each nucleus will have one
AVhen such a binucleate egg is fertilized, the
of these genes.
male nucleus unites with one of the two egg nuclei. If the male
bears the dominant allele of these recessive genes, the diploid
tissue which develops from the fertilized egg nucleus and will
form the female part of the gynander will show the dominant
character whereas the tissue which develops from the unferSuch gytilized egg nucleus will be phenotypically recessive.
nanders may have a head of one sex and an abdomen of the
other, one side of one sex and the other side of the opposite sex,
islands of male or female tissue in otherwise female or male
regions, or other combinations of male and female regions. When
of part diploid female

the genitalia contain tissues of both types, there may be a

full

and a half set of female structures.
Another type of gynander found in Habrobracon, although
infrequently, has haploid male parts which have developed androAndrogenesis means haploid development from a
genetically.
set of male structures

sperm nucleus.

Among fertilized eggs of this insect, about 1 per

cent are fertilized by two sperm.

If one of the sperm nuclei

can
which
develop without uniting with an egg nucleus, the tissue
arises from it will be haploid and therefore male, but will be
androgenetic. Thus gynanders can be formed with some androgenetic tissue.

Resembling gynanders in some respects are certain haploid
males called gynandroid. They develop from eggs which contain two functional haploid nuclei, but are not fertilized.

They

are mosaics of two types of tissue containing different sex alleles.

They are entirely male in appearance except that certain small
feminized structures are added to the male genitalia, usually on

The theory

complementary genes explains such
situations admirably. If the female was xa / xb, one part of the
body would be xa and the other xb, and both would be male.
Where the two sections join, secretions from the xa region might
one

side.

of

diffuse into the xb region for a short distance, and in these regions

complementary action of the two gene products
would produce some female structures.
of diffusion the

The Determination of Sex

502

Parthenogenesis

In Chapter 4 we pointed out that upon some occasions eggs

may develop into new individuals without ever having been fertilized.

We stated there that this is a regular occurrence in such

organisms as bees and wasps, but that it may be induced in
many other animals and even in some vertebrates by some sudden

change in environmental conditions.

It is

beyond our scope to

describe examples of induced parthenogenesis, but the reader
referred to Morgan's Experimental

Embryology and

is

to other

works in the fields of ontogeny and embryology.
Parthenogenesis may be either haploid or diploid.

In haploid

parthenogenesis meiosis occurs normally, and haploid eggs are

produced which then proceed to develop without being fertilized.
In diploid parthenogenesis the meiotic divisions are abnormal in
some features, and the eggs which are formed and later develop
without the assistance of any male cell have two genomes. Haploid parthenogenesis is a constant feature in the life cycle of

the group

known as the Hymenoptera, which includes the bees

and wasps, and always results in male offspring.

Diploid par-

thenogenesis is a regular feature of the life cycle of some animals.

In some of the lower animals reproduction is almost solely by

method, with the result that males occur very rarely if at
in other animals two or more generations of females are
produced by this method, after which sexual forms are produced.

this
all;

PLANTS
Sexual reproduction in the higher plants is complicated by the
presence in the life cycle of two separate and distinct generations,
as

we mentioned in Chapter 4.

Male and female gametes are

present and arise respectively from male and female gametophyte
plants.

These in turn develop from the male and female spores,

known

as the microspores and megaspores, and these
form
spores
on the sporophyte plant on micro- and megasporophylls, which, in the angiosperms, are found in an orbetter

gan known as the flower. The microsporophylls are the stamens
and the megasporophylls are the carpels, and one or more carpels
always forms an enclosed pistil. In most species of the flowering
plants both stamens and pistils are present in the same flower.
Such flowers are perfect, bisexual, or hermaphrodite. Flowers,

Plants

503

however, may lack either stamens or pistils, when they are unisexual or imperfect. If they bear only male structures, they are
staminate; and if only female structures, they are carpellate or
Plants which bear both staminate and pistillate
pistillate.

In some of the flowering plants the sexes
are in separate individuals as they are in animals. In these di-

flowers are monoecious.

oecious plants, some individuals will be male, bearing only stami-

nate flowers, whereas other individuals will have only pistillate
Intermediate conditions exist in
flowers and will be female.

which some of the flowers on a given plant will be perfect and
others staminate or pistillate only. Such plants are polygamous.
Like animals, plants in which both sexes are present may be
considered hermaphroditic whether the flowers are perfect or
whether the plant is monoecious. In this respect monoecious
plants resemble hermaphroditic animals such as the earthworm
in which sperms and eggs are produced within the same animal
but in different organs.

The relationship between the various stages of the life cycles
of animals and plants is interesting to consider and has been well

we start with the zygote in animals,
we find that it develops by numerous mitoses into the diploid
stated by G. H. Shull.

If

In the higher plants or Embryophyta, the
zygote also develops into a diploid body, the sporophyte. In
animals, meiosis takes place from certain cells in the animal

animal body or soma.

body, resulting in spermatids in the male and ootids in the female,
whereas the similar products of meiosis in the sporophyte of the
higher plants are called, respectively, microspores and mega-

In some of the lowest plants, such as the Chlorophyceae
or green algae, the zygote fails to develop into a mass of sporophyte tissue but remains in a resting condition for a while and

spores.

then divides directly by meiosis to produce spores. In the embryophytes, the microspores and megaspores divide and their
products undergo a number of mitotic divisions to produce masses
of tissue called, respectively, the

microgametophytes and mega-

gametophytes similar divisions of the spores in the Chlorophyceae produce multicellular gametophytes which are not difThe microgametophytes and
ferentiated with respect to sex.
megagametophytes then produce, respectively, the sperm and
the eggs, and the gametophytes of the green algae produce both
male and female gametes. In animals, however, the gameto;

The Determination of Sex

504

phyte stage does not appear, for the spermatids usually develop
directly into the spermatozoa

and the ootids become the eggs.

then reconstitutes the zygote in each organism.
These relationships are shown diagrammatically in Fig. 144.
Fertilization

Chlorophyceae

Embryophyta

zygote

zygote

resting spore

sporophyte

Animals

•

zygote

Y

•

A

i.

A,

\

I

microspores megaspores-

spores

—

soma

(meiosisj

(meiosis)

(meiosis)

gametophyte

•

/,

\

-spermatids ootids

microgametophyte megagametophyte

'I

sperm

eggs

zygote-

Fig. 144.

sperm

eggs-

zygote

•

sperm

eggs

zygote

Diagrams of life cycles of the Chlorophyceae, Embryophyta,

In the Embryophyta the zygote develops into a multicellular structure, the sporophyte; in animals, this multicellular structure is the
soma or body; in the green algae (Chlorophyceae) such a multicellular
structure does not develop but the zygote becomes merely a resting spore.
The products of meiosis in the Chlorophyceae and Embryophyta develop

and animals.

into a multicellular structure, the gametophyte, part of which subsequently
produces the gametes by mitosis. In animals, the immediate products of

meiosis (spermatids and ootids) do not divide into a multicellular structure but merely differentiate into the sperm and eggs.

Sex Chromosomes
Plants which might be thought most likely to resemble ani-

mals in their sexual behavior are the dioecious type since in these
plants each diploid individual is either a male or a female and

Sex Chromosomes

505

does not contain the organs of both sexes.

Because of the separa-

tion of the sexes in this type, it might be thought that it would

be in this type that plants might be found which have sex chro-

mosomes that operate like the XY or the ZW mechanism in the
Animal Kingdom. A study of the chromosomes in many dioecious species has shown that sex chromosomes certainly are to
be found in many of these forms but that dioecism is not necessarily determined

by sex chromosomes that are distinguishable

in their morphology.

In a very extensive review of sex expres-

sion in the flowering plants, Allen has listed fifty-five species and

two varieties of angiosperms in which the female is definitely XX
and the male XY. This simple "Drosophila type" of mechanism
is not the only sex chromosome mechanism that is operating in
the dioecious angiosperms.

In Dioscorea sinuata we find another

familiar type in which the female

is

XX and the male XO,

whereas in Fragaria elatior the female is the heterozygous sex
and is ZW and the male is ZZ.
In some species we find sex chromosomal types that we do not
encounter in animals.

In Humulus japonicus and in eight species

and two varieties of the dock Rumex, the female is XX and the
male has one X chromosome but two Y's, designated Yi and Y2.
The mechanism in Humulus Lwpulus and in a variety of these
species is much more complicated for, in addition to the two
sets of autosomes, the female has two pairs of X chromosomes,
designated Xi and X2, and the male has one member of each
of these pairs plus two nonhomologous Y chromosomes, designated Yi and Yo. Thus the complete formula for the female
would be 2A + 2Xi + 2X2 and for the male, 2A + Xi + Xo +
Yi + Y2. Almost the same formula could be assigned to Atriplex hymenelytra, which differs only in the presence of but one
Y chromosome in the male. The most unusual sex chromosome
mechanism is found in Phoradendron fiavescens var. macrophyllum and in Ph. villosum. In these plants the female has two
sets of autosomes but no sex chromosomes and the male has the
two sets of autosomes and a Y chromosome. At the first meiotic
division this chromosome is unpaired and passes as a univalent
to one pole. The female has twenty chromosomes and the male
twenty-one.
In his tabulation of dioecious species, Allen has listed forty-six
reported as having no chromosomes which can be identified as

506

The Determination of Sex

sex chromosomes.

In other words, there

is

no visibly hetero-

morphic pair of chromosomes in either sex. It does not necesno chromosomes in these plants that
have an important effect on sex determination but merely that
any difference that does occur between the chromosomes of the
two sexes is not evident from the morphology of the chromosomes. There may be sex chromosomes that are different from
one another physiologically even though not morphologically.
In plants that have the XY mechanism one might easily supchromosome might contain female-tendency
pose that the
genes and the autosomes male-tendency genes as in Drosophila
melanogaster. As in the fruit fly, evidence on this point might
sarily mean that there are

X

easily be tested if heteroploid types could be produced similar to

Bridges's series of intersexes and supersexes.

In fact, the greater

readiness with which heteroploid types are found in plants would
indicate that such studies would be even more promising in them

than in Drosophila.

Studies of this nature were carried out in

Rumex acetosa by Ono and by Yamamoto, who found that as in
Drosophila female-tendency genes are in the

X chromosome and

male-tendency genes in the autosomes. A slight difference from
Drosophila was pointed out by Yamamoto, w^ho obtained good
evidence that two of the autosomes tended to produce femaleness
even though the tendency of the autosomes as a whole was to
maleness.

Very interesting results have been obtained in species of Lychnis (Melandrium) by Warmke and Blakeslee and independently
by Westergaard. In dioecious species of this genus the male is
heterogametic. Since the ratio of X chromosomes to autosomes
is

of the greatest importance in Drosophila melanogaster, natu-

rally

it

was examined in the diploids and the synthesized polyPlants with a ratio of one X chromosome to

ploids of Lychnis.

one set of autosomes result from the genotypes 2A -f XX, 3A -j-

XXX, and 4A + XXXX and are female as in Drosophila. Two
types with ratios of 1.25 (4A + XXXXX) and 1.5 (2A + XXX)
The 1.5 type is a superfemale in Drosophila.
One type with a ratio of 0.75 (4A + XXX) and one with a ratio
are also female.

(3A + XX) are females although they ^re intersexes
Finally, plants with four sets of autosomes and
in Drosophila.
two
chromosomes and, therefore, a ratio of 0.5 are female,
of 0.67

X

although

flies

with a similar ratio are males.

Since

all

these

Sex Chromosomes
types are females, apparently the ratio of

507

X chromosomes to

autosomes is not definitive.
Since all plants lacking a

Y chromosome are female, the pos-

sibility must be considered that simply the presence or absence

of the

Y chromosome determines whether a plant is male or

female.

A number of 2n, 3n, and 4n plants were examined which

Fig.

145.

Dissected flowers of Lychnis (Melandrium)

dioica.

Male,

2AXY (left), female, 2A XX (right), and male hermaphrodite, 2A XXY
beneath the flowers are photomicrographs of root-tip chromo(Courtesy of Dr. H. E. Warmke in the American
Journal of Botany.)
(center)

;

somes of each type.

had one to four X chromosomes and one or two Y chromosomes.
Some were male, some were male with occasionally hermaphrodite flowers, and some were hermaphrodites with occasional
male flowers (Fig. 145) That flowers can be produced with functional female organs in plants with one or two Y chromosomes
shows that the presence of a Y chromosome is not the deciding
.

factor.

The ratio of the X chromosome to the Y chromosome appears
to be a much more satisfactory explanation (Table 26). Plants
without an X chromosome are apparently not viable, for no
2A + YY individuals were found when male-hermaphrodites

The Determination of Sex

508

were selfed even though a certain percentage would be expected
among the male offspring. Plants in which the ratio is 0.5, 1.0,

and 1.5 are male, but when the ratio is 2.0 or 3.0 the plants are
males but have a few hermaphrodite flowers. AVhen the ratio is
4.0, the plants are hermaphrodites with occasional male flowers.

TABLE 26
Ratio of X Chromosomes to Y Chromosomes in Diploids and Polyploids
OF Lychnis (Melandrium) and Its Bearing on Sex
(Modified from Warmke in the American Journal of Botany.)

X/Y ratio

Monoecious and Hermaphroditic Plants

509

per cent the female parts possess ovules capable of developing
into seeds.

When there are four times as many X chromosomes,

nearly all the flowers have well-developed pistils, setting abun-

dant seeds.

Warmke has pointed out that the X / Y balance is

in the nature of a threshold reaction.

increase in the relative number of

Even though there is an

X chromosomes in the ratios

from 0.5 to 1.5, there is no increase in the degree of femaleness.
Ratios of 2.0 and 3.0 are sufficiently high for femaleness to be
expressed provided conditions are suitable, but
is

4.0 almost every flower contains

functional

when the ratio
female organs.

The change from 3.0 to 4.0 apparently crosses the threshold so
that one additional

X chromosome results in an almost complete

change from maleness to hermaphroditism. Increases beyond 4.0
in the ratio in plants containing at least one Y chromosome have
not yet been obtained.

XXY

Although plants with the formula
are frequently male
with a few hermaphrodite flowers, a type exists in which the
plants have stronger female tendencies. When this was
selfed,
types were recovered which produced a ratio
and
The male1 male-hermaphrodite when crossed.
of 1 female

XXY

XX

XY

:

tendency genes in the Y chromosome are at least three, as can be
plants fragments of the Y chroshown by including in 2A +

XX

Y is
completely absent, the plant is a female; but if parts of the Y are

mosome whose lengths vary in different individuals.

If the

be found which usually do not
attain complete development.
Of the three genes, one appears

present,

male structures

will

to be near the centromere, and is necessary if male structures are
to be initiated, one carries male development to completion, and

one suppresses femaleness.

Monoecious and Hermaphroditic Plants
In a number of species some flowers are male and others female
on the same plant, and in some species each type of flower is
produced at only one particular part of the plant. In many of
the higher plants, however,

stamens and the

pistils

are

produced near each other in different regions of the same

bi-

the

sexual flower.

Monoecious and hermaphroditic plants do not appear to have
any morphologically recognizable sex chromosomes, but they
undoubtedly possess both male and female tendencies even

The Determination of Sex

510

though the expression of one or the other tendency seems to
Here sex is largely a deprevail in certain cells and regions.
velopmental problem. As a perfect flower develops, certain cells
become anthers and contain microspores whereas others become
Which type of spore is procarpels and contain megaspores.
duced in a given region is apparently determined chiefly by the
position of that region relative to the remainder of the flower.
This pattern of development of the various parts of the flower
is under the control of genes which are not to be considered as
male- or female-determining. In monoecious plants with imperfect flowers such as maize the position of the region relative
to the rest of the plant is apparently the chief determining factor,

and it, too, is a matter of the ontogeny of the plant.

as the terminal inflorescence

is

initiated,

Thus,

microspores become

whereas the lateral inflorescences generally condeveloped in
tain only megaspores. In other words, in hermaphroditic plants
the presence of a particular type of sex organ in a certain region
it,

of the plant is largely a problem of development in an organism

which both potentialities are present and in which sex is
largely determined by the ontogenetic pattern. Even as a par-

in

ticular region develops, occasional deviations in the usual onto-

genetic pattern

may result in the development of organs of the

produced at a given
point. Ears of maize are frequently terminated by a male spike,
and female flowers and occasionally small ears may be found in
opposite sex from that which normally

tassels.

is

Figure 146 illustrates a perfect small ear which has

been produced in a tassel that also contains a number of male
flowers.
This ear illustrates the possibilities of the development
of organs of the opposite sex in a definite region of a monoecious
plant.

Seeds are often produced in a maize tassel

when the

plants are grown during a shortened day.

Some interesting changes in the sexual

condition of certain

plants have been brought about experimentally

by changes

the environment or by the manipulation of the genotype.
is

in

Hemp

a dioecious plant whose sex expression has been studied rather

In a lung series of experiments Schaffner showed
that length of day and other environmental factors could modify
intensively.

the sexual expression to the extent of producing some flowers of

one sex on plants of the opposite sex.

Similar modifications of

sex expression in hemp by changes in length of day were obtained

Monoecious and Hermaphroditic Plants

511

As he has pointed out, such changes, of course,
do not change the genotype. They merely indicate that a given
genotype may have a somewhat different expressivity under different sets of environmental conditions in the same way that
by McPhee.

other genes

may produce different phenotypes in different en-

vironments.

Fig. 146. Tassel of maize with a small, well-formed ear.
Most of the
male flowers in the tassel are sterile but a few are well developed. (Photograph by Dr. W. Brooks Hamilton.)

Any gene that affects the sexual processes, the sex organs, or
the gametes themselves may be regarded as a sex gene. A number of such genes have been identified in maize.

Some of them

produce complete or partial male or female sterility or both.

It-

may be accomplished by upsetting meiosis or otherwise directly
affecting the spores or gametophytes, but it may also be brought
about by affecting the organs in which the sporocytes are produced. Thus a gene that prevented the development of anthers
might not be thought of as a "sex gene" but would be merely
another gene that causes some abnormality in growth in the

The Determination of Sex

512

somatic tissue of the plant.

Since, however, male gametophytes

and gametes arise only in anthers, this abnormality would eliminate the male reproductive phase of that monoecious plant and
would convert it into a female. In fact, by combining such genes
in

a certain

way, Jones has established a dioecious strain of

maize.

There is a recessive gene on the second chromosome in maize
known as silkless, sk, which, when homozygous, causes an abortion

of

the

ovaries.

normal, but the spike

The
is

functioning female flowers

lateral

inflorescences

entirely barren.

are otherwise

The elimination of

makes sksk plants effectively male.

Furthermore, there are several recessive genes which affect the
tassel in such a way that in homozygotes the staminate flowers

They are the tassel seed, ts,
genes, and plants homozygous for any of them are effectively

are replaced with pistillate ones.

happens that tassel seed-2, one of these
genes, is epistatic to silkless. Plants which possess both Sk and
Ts2 are normal; those that are sksk TS2TS2 or sksk Ts2ts2 are
male plants, since they are silkless; and plants that have one
or two Sk genes and are also ts2ts2 are female, since they have
the stamens absent from the tassel. However, sksk ts2ts2 plants
female plants.

It so

are not completely sterile but are functional females because the

homozygous silkless condition is not expressed when the plant is
homozygous for ts2'
If an Sksk Ts2ts2 plant was selfed, the offspring would segre3 silkless
gate into a ratio of 9 normal monoecious {Sk TS2)
male {sk TS2) 4 tassel seed female {3 Sk ts2 + 1 s/c ts2). This
epistatic relationship makes it possible to maintain a dioecious
strain in which half the plants are female and half are male, provided the original female is sksk ts2ts2 and the male is sksk Ts2ts2.
If no outcrosses are made, this strain can be maintained perpetually in the dioecious condition, and it has been kept so for a
number of generations by Jones, who created it. Since all plants
in the strain are sksk, the sex is "determined" by Ts2 or ts2. The
:

:

ts2

locus is the differential that throws the balance towards the

male or the female side. In a sense, then, the chromosome that
carries this gene has become a sex chromosome, and the male
is

the heterogametic sex.

By a proper selection of other genes

that suppress or stimulate the male or female structures, other
dioecious strains could be developed.

Apomixis

513

With certain gene combinations other chromosomes might become the sex differential and therefore the "sex chromosome,"
and in some particular gene combinations the female might become the heterogametic sex. Emerson has developed two dioecious strains in one the male and in the other the female is the
;

Although there is no assurance that dioecious
species arose in this manner throughout the course of evolution,
It would also indiit is quite conceivable that they may have.
cate why certain organisms happen to be of the XY type whereas
heterogametic sex.

ZW type.

Jones has founcf that all his families
of the dioecious strain produce some individuals with intersexual

others are of the

may possess an occasional functional anther and silkless individuals may have a rare functional
tendencies; tassel seed plants

female flower.

The various families differ with respect to the

number and character of these intergrades and respond to selection.
It is very probable that these factors which are known
to be hereditary are of the nature of modifying genes.

Apomixis

As we pointed out in Chapter 4, all reproduction is not by
seeds, nor does

it

involve sexual reproduction.

Asexual repro-

duction that does not involve nuclear or cellular fusion and has
arisen as a substitute for sexual reproduction has been called

apomixis.
gerlind

The two main types may be classified, following Fa-

and Stebbins, as vegetative apomixis and agamospermy,

or apomixis through seed production.

The first type does not in-

clude all vegetative reproduction but only those types that arise
as substitutes for sexual reproduction.

Various structures such

as vegetative buds, bulblets, or proliferations would be included
if they
is

arose in place of flowers or flower clusters.

of three types.

Agamospermy

In one form, meiosis is normal, and a haploid

egg is produced from which develops a haploid sporophyte.

It

most nearly resembles the situation we have mentioned in animals. In another type the nucellus or inner integument of the
ovary proliferates and forms a new sporophyte. Since the nucellus and integument are part of the parental sporophyte, this type
is a direct formation of a new sporophyte from the somatic tissues of the old. This type differs from vegetative apomixis in
that it involves a structure connected with the seed and sometimes is dependent upon, although not utilizing directly, fertiliza-

The Determination of Sex

514

and in that it produces a
new individual with the characteristics of a seedling whereas
the individual arising by vegetative apomixis has the characIn the third type a diploid gametophyte
teristics of an adult.
tion,

endosperm formation,

or both,

gives rise to a diploid sporophyte.

In this type there is a regu-

lar alternation of generations, but, although the two generations

morphologically, they do not differ with respect to their

differ

chromosome number. There are several methods by which this
development of the two generations occurs which naturally does
not involve either a fiormal meiosis or fertilization.

Plants that

by apomixis are usually very similar phenotypically, but
occasionally show genetic variation.
arise

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

If

In some dioecious plants, occasional bisexual flowers are formed.

a bisexual flower on a normally female plant whose sex chromosomes

XX

what would be the sex of the offspring?
2. In what fundamental ways do the balance theories of Bridges,
Goldschmidt, and Correns agree and in what ways do they differ?
are

is

self-fertilized,

3. If no polyploid types of Drosophila

melanogaster had ever arisen,

what evidence would there be that sex was determined by the X chromosomes rather than by the Y chromosome?
4. In Lychnis (Melandrium) gene B determines broad leaves and b
narrow leaves. These genes are on the X chromosome. All pollen with
the b gene is lethal. What offspring would be expected from the following crosses?

XB /XB xXb /Y
XB/Xb XXb /Y
XB/Xb XXB/Y
5.

In

Silette

otites,

the male appears to be heterogametic.

colchicine-induced tetraploid, the female is

In a

XXXX and the male XXYY.

If these are crossed, what should be the ratio of males to females if any

tetraploid with a
6.

Y chromosome is a male?

If the female i^x problem 5 were the heterogametic sex, what would

be the ratio in the offspring if two
a female?
males

:

1

If

Y chromosomes are necessary to make

a cross between two tetraploids produced a ratio of 5

female, which theory w^ould be correct, that the male is hetero-

gametic as in problem 5 or that the female
Explain.

is

the heterogametic sex?

Questions and Problems
7.

If the tetraploid female in problem 5 is

a normal

XXXX and

515
is

crossed with

XY diploid male, what should be the ratio of the sexes of the
ZZWW as in problem 6,
If the tetraploid female

triploid offspring?

is

and it is crossed with a normal ZZ diploid male, what should be the sex
ratio in the triploids. Would such tetraploid X diploid crosses throw any
light upon the question of the heterogametic sex?
8. Is heteropycnosis confined to sex chromosomes or to the higher
plants ?
9.

What would be the offspring of the following crosses in Jones's

maize

Sksk TsotSi X sksk
Sksk ts2ts2

ts2ts-2

X Sksk ts2ts2

Sksk Ts2ts2 X sksk

Ts2ts2

Chapter 30

CYTOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION
Species

The concept of a species has undergone numerous changes from
the time it was beheved that each species was a specially created
entity until the present, when the frequent discoveries of numerous hybrids and intergrading forms keep reminding us that species

change and that throughout the course of evolution various

species

have appeared and disappeared.

To

define a

species

according to our present factual information is by no means a
simple problem, and many different definitions have been offered

by various biologists from time to time.
One of the more satisfactory definitions is A. E. Emerson's.

He defines a species as "a genetically distinctive, reproductively
isolated, natural population."
He elaborates this by saying,
''The genetic distinction may be morphological, physiological, or
behavioristic.

The isolation, whatever the mechanism, effectively
The population

prevents interbreeding with other populations.

concept emphasizes the interplay of biological factors between
the individuals."

Unfortunately, however, most of the species that

we know-

were established on the basis of one or several preserved specimens in a museum and have not been studied or recognized with

any relationship to barriers, either biological or geographical.
Although we may regard a species as a biological unit consisting of a large number of plants or animals, we must understand
that the individuals comprising it are not homozygous or even
genetically identical.

Since various members may be heterozy-

gous for several genes and since the self-fertilization or crossing
of various individuals may produce types that are phenotypically

from the parents, species show variation which differs
in extent from species to species. Often certain genotypes may
become more prevalent in certain geographic localities of the
habitat of the species whereas other genotypes may become more

different

516

Hybrids

517

abundant in other localities. Thus different strains or subspecies
may segregate out which can be identified from their external
appearance but are not so different from one another as to war-

The individuals that
comprise a subspecies may differ somewhat from one another
but may resemble one another more than they resemble those
that make up another subspecies. The various subspecies also
rant their being classed as separate species.

differ

from one another, but the individuals of any subspecies

resemble those of another subspecies of the same species more
closely than they resemble individuals of another species.

dividuals of one subspecies

In-

may frequently cross with those of

another if the opportunity presents

itself,

and in a number of

we have found that members of one species can cross
with those of another. One of the important phases of the species
genera

problem is the mechanisms which normally prevent two subspecies or two species from crossing but occasionally can break

down so as to permit the production of intraspecific or of interspecific hybrids.

Hybrids

A cross between two plants or animals of different types is
known as a hybrid, but as the term has been used in several different senses, we might well ask whether any inherited difference
is

sufficient for the application of the

ferences between the two parents

term or whether the dif-

must be of a certain order of

magnitude.
Originally a hybrid was considered to be the offspring of two
dift'erent species, genera, or at least races,

forms, or subspecies,

but with the pubhcation of Mendel's classic paper on genetics a

new significance was given the term. Mendel crossed peas which
differed by only one, two, or a

few genes and yet he applied the
term "hybrid" to the offspring of such crosses. This use of the
term for crosses between individuals of the same subspecies, form,
or race was new.
Today such heterozygous individuals are
often referred to as mendelian hybrids or gene hybrids. Applying this same principle not to differences in individual genes but
to differences in genomes, Darlington

and others have used the

term hybrid for any zygote which arises as the result of a union
of two gametes dissimilar in any respect whatsoever or for a
zygote or product of a zygote which produces gametes dissimilar

Cytogenetics and Evolution

518

Hybrids according to this usage might be
mendelian or chromosomal, depending upon whether the gametes
differed merely in gene loci or in some unit larger than a gene
locus. Chromosomal hybrids would be of several different kinds.
in

some

respect.

The classification of plants that are not strictly true-breeding
into the categories of "hybrids" which we have just mentioned
ignores completely the taxonomic position of the parents.

It also

has the drawback sometimes of classifying one plant as a hybrid

and another that is identical as not a hybrid. For example, if
one gene is completely dominant over its allele, the heterozygote
or hybrid will be indistinguishable phenotypically from the homozygous dominant which is not a hybrid. Also some structural
hybrids might exhibit evidences that they are heterozygous for
inversions or translocations but might be indistinguishable phenotypically from the types that were homozygous for the inverted

segment and homozygous for the noninverted chromosome. If
these two cytological types did not differ as to any alleles, and
if the inversion was not accompanied by a position effect, the
fact that the two gametes that formed the "hybrid" zygote were
different could not be detected except by cytological examination.

It is

perhaps unfortunate that the term hybrid has been

used in several different senses, but the fact is that it has.
Isolating Mechanisms
If two species can cross if given the opportunity and if Fi off-

spring can be produced which are

fertile,

these offspring should

be able to produce further offspring either by self-fertilization, by

by backcrossing to the parents.
Furthermore, these Fo and backcross offspring would also probcrossing with one another, or

ably be

fertile,

in

which case they could also produce a new

generation by the same methods.

two original species
were separated by geographical barriers which had become
broken down so that the two species could come close enough to
If the

cross, such an array of Fi, backcross, and subsequent generations

would be produced in a small area after several breeding generations.
If the organism was one whose life span exceeded several
reproductive periods, individuals (or clones) of all these genera-

Such a heterogeneous mixture of
types would be a hybrid swarm.

tions would be present at once.

Isolating Mechanisms

519

Barriers or isolating mechanisms that tend to keep species and

from intercrossing and producing
hybrids and perhaps also hybrid swarms, occasionally break
down and permit one species to cross with another. Let us
examine some of the barriers that appear to separate the various
to a lesser extent subspecies

species of a genus into natural populations relatively isolated

from one another.
Geographical Isolation. One of the more obvious isolation
mechanisms is geographic isolation. This type of barrier serves
to prevent two species from interbreeding by keeping them apart
in space.
If two animals cannot come close together they cannot
mate, and if two plants are not near enough for the pollen to be
transferred from one to the other by wind or by insects they cannot produce offspring. If the two animals or plants represent
different species, any factor that will prevent them from coming
sufficiently close to

one another during periods of reproduction

to be within what might be called the effective crossbreeding dis-

Such geographical barriers might be linear distance but might also be some other factor,
such as mountains or rivers; and a factor that might constitute
a barrier for the species of one genus might not operate as such
between the species of another genus. Geographical isolation
alone would not bring about the origin of new species, but it can
set the stage for other necessary conditions such as the accumulation of different mutations in different localities.
If geographical barriers are the only isolating mechanism, the
two isolated and differentiated species will cross and produce
fertile hybrids and hybrid swarms once that barrier is removed.
Ecological Isolation. Of all the isolating mechanisms, the geographical one alone is a purely environmental mechanism. All
the other types reflect at least some internal condition in the
organisms. One of these barriers that depend upon something
intrinsic in the organism is ecological isolation.
tance will prevent the origin of hybrids.

Ecological isolation operates in the same manner as geograph-

The two species are isolated in space and, as a
The differences are that ecological isolaresult, are not crossed.
over
a much smaller area and the fundation operates effectively
ical isolation.

mental causes of the separation are different. For example,
Tradescantia canaliculata grows in full sunlight at the tops of
cliffs, and T. suhaspera var. typica in the shade at the bottom.

Cytogenetics and Evolution

520

Where erosion has broken the face of the cliff the two species can
come together and produce hybrids (Fig. 147).
The Louisiana irises also illustrate ecological isolation and
hybrid swarms. About twenty years ago a great assortment of
different types was discovered, and the question was raised concerning their possible hybrid origin.

In an ecological study Vi-

osca showed that Iris julva, a species with a coppery red-colored

b

a
Fig.

147.

An ecological barrier in Tradescantia.

(a)

A cliff with T.

canaliculata growing above and T. subaspera var. typica below.

(6)

Hy-

brids (indicated by arrows) between these two species growing in a ravine
where the surface of the cliff is worn away sufficiently that the species can
come into close contact and hybridize. (Redrawn from Anderson and
Hubricht in the American Journal of Botany.)

flower and a flower stalk 25 to 45 inches tall, was found in the

clayey soils on the banks of deltaic streams and on the flat lands
on the far sides of these deltaic ridges. It follows deltaic formations almost to sea level

and therefore is often found in woods.

I. hexagona var. giganticaerulea has columbine blue flowers with

sepals 50 per cent larger than those of the other species.

The

flower stalks are normally 40 to 60 inches tall, but are sometimes

found only in low lands in rich,
mucky clay with a high water content bordering a marsh. In
many places the two species are not far apart, and the actual
even longer.

This species

is

may be only 2 or 3 feet.

However, the
regions are ecologically so different that the two species can come
together only if an intermediate habitat is present. Such a habi-

difference in elevation

Isolating

Mechanisms

521

tat can be found if a swamp drainage bayou (which is never of

cuts across one of the long-estabUshed deltaic

deltaic

origin)

ridges.

It is in an intermediate situation thus formed that almost

all

the large mass of hybrid types is found (Fig. 148).

A map of Iris colonies illustrating an ecological barrier. At
group of clones of Iris fulva growing on the bank of the alluvial
ridge of a former deltaic stream, S, now filled in. A new bayou, B, has cut
across the old stream bed and at their intersection a marsh has formed in
which are growing clones of /. hexagona var. giganticaerulea, G. Normall3% the two species do not come close enough together to hj'bridize.
However, in a region such as this one, if man disturbs the land of the
old deltaic stream as at H, hybrids may be found. The pasturing of cattle
appears to aid in eliminating the barrier by fertilizing the soil, thinning
out the competitors of Iris, and keeping the soil well cultivated. Plants or
Fig. 148.

F is

a.

G might sucH, where they would meet plants of /.
julvdi and form a hybrid swarm.
(Redrawn from Riley in the American
seeds of giganticaerulea washed up the old stream bed from
cessfully

become established

at

Journal of Botany.)

Seasonal Isolation.

An intrinsic isolating mechanism that pro-

duces the same result as ecological isolation but operates through
a time factor rather than through a space factor is seasonal isolation.

If two species inhabit the same geographical and ecological

regions but if each one

is

reproductively active at a time when

the reproductive processes of the other are dormant, they might
as well be thousands of miles apart for they cannot

gether to produce hybrids.

by this type of barrier.

come to-

A number of species are separated

522

Cytogenetics and Evolution

Mechanical and Psychological Isolation. Ecological and seasonal isolations are mechanisms that prevent two species from
producing hybrids by keeping them apart either in space or in
time as the result of forces partly within the species.

There are
two types of isolation mechanisms that keep two species from
mating, even though they are close enough to one another to
mate and even though they are both capable of reproduction at
the same time. One of these is mechanical isolation.
It has been found that in some families of animals considerable
differences are present in the external genital organs in different

These differences are so marked in some forms that they
have been used by taxonomists in distinguishing different species
in some insects, in spiders, in mollusks, and in some fish and
mammals. Because of these differences, the theory has been
advanced upon a number of occasions that in forms with such
species.

complicated genital organs only the male and female of the same
species are able to mate.

There is only a slight amount of evi-

dence to support this theory, and there are numerous observa-

mating between species that are not closely
related. More factual data are needed to clarify this point, but
it appears to be the view of Dobzhansky, Kinsey, and other
zoologists that the importance of this type of isolating mechanism
tions of successful

has been greatly exaggerated.

Another mechanism that prevents mating even though the species are

not separated in either time or space has been called

psychological isolation or sexual isolation.
lation there are

In this type of isono morphological differences in the sex organs,

but there are differences in the patterns of behavior that precede
mating.

Some interesting examples have been pointed out by Dice for
mice of the genus Peromyscus. In Glacier National Park, Montana, Peromyscus maniculatus artemisiae, a subspecies that in-

habits the forests and P. m. osgoodi, a grassland subspecies, are

found together but do not interbreed. Ecological isolation accounts for some of the failure of interbreeding, but will not account for all of it.

In a number of places where the two habitats

meet, both subspecies live together but do not interbreed.

This

failure of mating appears to result from psychological differences
between the two subspecies. A similar failure to interbreed has
been found in regions of the Dismal Swamp of Virginia, in north-

Isolating

Mechanisms

523

ern Alabama, and in the lower Mississippi Valley, where Peromyscus leucopus and P. gossypinus are found in the same region
and in the same habitats and where there is no evidence of their
mating except for two presumed hybrids found in Alabama. Dice
has assumed that these two species were once separated geographically and that while they were separated they diverged
psychologically to such an extent that they do not mate even
when they are found in the same region.

Numerous other examples of isolation of species because

of

mating preferences upon the part of the individuals of the two
species may be cited from fish, moths, spiders, snails, birds, and

Drosophila, but the result is always the same

—a

failure of mat-

ing between individuals that may otherwise be fertile together.

Gamete Incompatibility Isolation.

Two species may occupy

the same region and habitat, may be sexually active at the same
time, and may be separated

by no mechanical or psychological

may not produce a new generation of sexually
reproducing offspring. Even though they may mate, some other
barrier may be present that prevents the establishment of hybrid
barrier, but yet

swarms. One is the failure of fertilization after mating because
the sperm never reaches the egg.

Gene-Cytoplasm Isolation.
In the last class of isolation
mechanisms, the sperm never reached the egg. In some interfamily crosses, however, as between echinoderms and annelids
or mollusks, the sperm penetrates the egg only to be later thrown
out or dissolved. The cause is an antagonism between the sperm
nucleus and the cytoplasm of the egg and acts as an isolating
mechanism by preventing the formation of species hybrids.
Hybrid Lethality Isolation. In this class of isolating mechanisms, the sperm enters the egg, the sperm and egg nuclei unite,
and the embryo proceeds to develop. The embryo, however, does
not usually develop very far, although in some organisms it may
develop into an adult which dies before it reaches sexual maturity.

Among animals this type of isolation has been reported

and moths. The cause apparently is a general
disharmony between the genes of the two parents, producing an
animal that is structurally so abnormal that it cannot function
properly and dies.
In some species crosses in plants the same phenomena are observed. The hybrid forms and dies at a very early stage. It may
in fish, beetles,

Cytogenetics and Evolution

524

from a disharmony within the embryo

result

itself

such that

the

embryo is incapable of developing sufficiently normally to

live.

On the other hand, it may sometimes result from a dishar-

mony between the developing embryo and some other structure
in the seed, such as the seed coat or the

endosperm.

If the dis-

harmony is within the embryo, apparently nothing can be done
about it. Otherwise, the embryo may be removed from the seed,
cultured in vitro, and thus raised to maturity.

Although it can-

not occur in nature, it is an interesting method of producing hybrids artificially in a few plants.

Hybrid Sterility Isolation. Another type of isolating mechanism results in the formation of sexually mature hybrids between
the two parental species, but hybrids which are sterile.
Such
sterility is often the result of failure of the chromosomes to pair
and to segregate normally at meiosis. It does not prevent the
formation of hybrids but of hybrid swarms.

Combined Isolation.

Although we have listed a number of
mechanisms that isolate species, it so happens that many species
are isolated simultaneously by a number of mechanisms.
For
example, Dobzhansky has shown that although the hybrids be-

tween Drosophila miranda and D. pseudoobscura are completely
sterile,

these species are also separated by a strong sexual (psy-

and by a decrease in the viability of the
Probably more species are isolated by the simultaneous operation of two or more mechanisms than by merely
one mechanism.
chological)

isolation

Fi hybrids.

Embryo Culture
The culture in artificial media of young embryos of Datura
hybrids has been spectacularly successful during the last few
years as the result of a technique developed by van Overbeek

and Conklin. The hybrid embryos are dissected out of the seed
and are placed in media containing certain salts, vitamins, and
an "embryo factor" found in coconut milk. Blakeslee and his
co-workers have obtained hybrid embryos from eleven species
combinations that had never before been successful and from
other combinations that had previously yielded only one seed

from many hundred pollinations. One of the most interesting
hybrids thus obtained was between Datura inoxia and a tree
Datura. Blakeslee has varied the coconut milk technique by

Index Frequency Method

525

using powdered malt extract sterilized by filtration in place of the

coconut milk as a source of the "embryo factor." This method
has also been applied successfully to hybrids between 7ns pseudacorus and 7. versicolor and between different species of Lilium.
In Chapter 26 we called attention to the work of Brink and

Cooper on somatoplastic sterility. They have shown that the
dominant tissue in a juvenile angiosperm seed is the endosperm.
They have further maintained that the collapse of a seed produced from a cross between two species that are wide apart
is the result of disharmony in the endosperm rather than in the
embryo. A cross which they made between the squirrel-tail
grass, Hordeum juhatum, and rye, Secale cereale, illustrates this.
Hybrids are readily obtained and the hybrid seed develops 6 to
13 days and then collapses. Brink, Cooper, and Ausherman dissected the embryos from 9- to 12-day seeds and grew them
upon artificial media. Of 81 treated embryos, 34 were free of
fungal or bacterial contamination and made considerable growth
in the nutrient media.
One embryo differentiated normally and
was potted up and raised to sexual maturity. A study of meiotic
behavior indicated that there was little homology between the
parental genomes. By embryo culture somatoplastic isolation
may be overcome and hybrids produced between species that
would never produce viable hybrids in the wild.
'

Index Frequency Method

A method which attempts to picture quantitatively the qualitative variation exhibited by hybrid swarms has been developed

by Anderson largely for Tradescantia hybrids, and has been
used by others in studying other genera. This method, criticized
by some investigators, is highly subjective in the selection of
characters and the way in which it weights them, but it has certain advantages that, provided

its

limitations are understood,

make it a very useful technique for comparing populations.

Two species are compared with respect to a number of characters, each markedly different in the two types.

The value

is

assigned to each character of one species and another value as
2, 3, 4,

or some other relatively low number to each correspond-

ing character in the other species.

If the two values are

and 2

for a certain trait, an intermediate type would be given the value
1.

If the values are

and 4, the intermediate would be 2 and

526

Cytogenetics and Evolution

other intermediate types more or less resembling one or the other
species might be scored 1 or 3.
acters of a certain plant

is

In this manner, each of the char-

given a value.

All the values are

added together and the sum is the index value of the plant. The
index value is a rough estimate of the position of the given plant
with respect to the theoretical concepts of the two species for all
the characters scored. If a natural population is under observation, the index values of all the plants are plotted in a histogram.

The histograms for the two species do not overlap and are found
at opposite extremes of a curve, but the histograms of various

hybrid populations may fall between the others, depending upon
the structure of the various populations.

Anderson made an interesting study between Tradescantia virginiana and T. canaliculata, the two most common Tradescantias
The former usually grows in shade
of eastern North America.
or semi-shade; the latter is usually found in full sun, often on or
near rocks or in dry sands. They are thus separated by an ecoHybridization was studied in Jefferson County,
logical barrier.
Missouri, in a region little disturbed by man in which hybridization, therefore, was taking place under natural conditions. Populations of each species were studied as well as six populations
Index values were assigned and plotted, as in Fig.
of hybrids.
149. The distributions of these values show definitely that these
were hybrid populations.
Introgressive

Hybridization.

If

there

is

free

intercrossing

among the plants of the two species, among the hybrids, and between any hybrid plant and any member of either species, and if
the two species are in equal numbers at the start of the hybridization, theoretically the

hybrid swarm should be distributed,

when scored by the index frequency method, according to a
normal frequency curve. However, if one species is far more
abundant than the other, the Fi and subsequent hybrids will
have far more opportunity to backcross to that species than to
the less abundant species, and the hybrid swarm will present a
curve which is strongly skewed in the direction away from the
more abundant species. After a few such repeated backcrosses,
most of the individuals of the hybrid swarm will appear rather
as extreme variants of the pure species than as hybrids. This
"absorbing" of one species by the other or, to look at it from the
other angle, this "infection" of the second species by the first

Index Frequency Method

527

C

J

I

12

3

4

5

6'

8

'

I

'

I

10

R

S

11

Fig. 149. Histograms of Tradescantia populations of thirty plants each.
B, a population of T. canaliculata and F, one of T. virginiaua. A, C, R, S,
and
represent six populations of hj^brid swarms. All the populations are

Y

plotted by the

same index-frequency method and their positions roughly
show their relation to one another. (From Anderson in Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden.)

Cytogenetics and Evolution

528

has been termed introgressive hybridization by Anderson and

Hubricht, who have illustrated it by a diagram reproduced as Fig.
150.

In this figure, the solid black indicates species A, species

The stippled area
The arrows
illustrates the hybrid swarm exclusive of the Fi's.

B, or the Fi hybrids, according to position.

indicate the approximate limits of the terms "species" and "hy-

show that many of the extreme variants included
under species A are actually of more or less remote hybrid origin.
brids" and

Species A

Species

> Hybrids

"*

B
^

Diagram showing the relation of two species, A and B (solid
black), the first generation hybrids (also sohd black), and later hybrid
generations and backcrosses to species A (dotted). The arrows at the base
of the figure delimit the "species" and "hybrids" in the populations in
which introgressive hybridization is taking place. (Redrawn from Anderson and Hubricht in the American Journal of Botany.)
Fig. 150.

Studies of populations of Tradescantia, as examined and evalu-

ated from herbarium material, show that there has been a strong
introgression of T. canaliculata into T. occidentalis and also into

However, there is no evidence to show any introgression of T. subaspera into T. canaliculata, even though these
T. bracteata.

species can be crossed to produce fertile offspring.

The method we have described of arbitrarily
assigning index values to each of a number of characters of two
Other Indices.

and their intermediate forms in order to assign a single
value to individual plants as a means of comparing putative
hybrids with both species is not the only method that has been
used for that purpose. Hubbs and Whitlock introduced the character index for studying fish, and Anderson and Whitaker introduced a similar expression under the term general index in a
species

study of Uvularia.

Hubbs has devised a valuable hybrid index method which has
been applied successfully to groups of fish. The hybrid index is

Index Frequency Method

529

obtained separately for each character of each hybrid individual.

These individual hybrid indices may then be tabulated for all
the hybrids to show how one character in all the hybrids compares with the mean value of that character in each parental
type, or all the indices of any hybrid individual may be averaged
together to give a composite picture of all the characters of that
individual for comparison with the ensemble of each parental
form. In computing the hybrid index for a given character, the
average of one parental type is assigned the value 0, whereas
the average of that character in the other parental type is valued

The value, Vh, of that character in the particular hybrid
is calculated, and the position, P, of the hybrid is calculated by

at 100.

the formula

° M2 - Ml

,

wherein Mi and M2 represent the mean values of the two parents.

The hybrid index, /, is 100 times P.

Mi is usually ap-

plied to the parental species which seems to be the more primitive,

if

value of

possible.

For hybrid populations, the mean

the hybrids,

Mh, is used in place of Vh in the

that
all

is

above formula. In many hybrid populations the standard error
of the hybrid index may also be computed.
The hybrid index is valuable as a test for hybridity and for

mode of inheritance.

If the putative hybrids are not hybrids

but merely selected specimens of the two species, or if each character studied is determined merely by one pair of alleles, a curve

obtained by plotting the individual indices would be a bimodal

curve with one hump at either end of the scale.

If,

however, the

putative hybrids are actually hybrids, a unimodal curve would
result with the

hump in the neighborhood of 50 on the scale.

This curve w^ould indicate characters determined by polygenes
or,

which is highly improbable, characters determined by genes

that show^ed incomplete dominance.

Hubbs

considers that

if

unimodal curves were obtained for two or more unrelated traits
in a given set of individuals, those individuals could be assumed

Hubbs has applied this method to interspecific
and intergeneric crosses among suckers. A comparison of the

to be hybrids.

hybrids and parents in five scale counts in several sucker popu-

Cytogenetics and Evolution

530
lations

is

illustrated in Fig. 151.

Hubbs has

In these suckers,

found that the hybrids show httle more variabiHty than the
parental species, which indicates, among other things, that there
10
Pantosteus jordani
~

0;

THybridl

^ Catostomus c grtseus
20-

Pantosteus_

10-

clarkii

10-

20-

Hybrids

.JL

Catostomus
10insignis

20-

Catostomus

10-

syncheilus
syncheilus

10;

Hybrids

L

2010-

0-

Catostomus
macrocheilus

Above Lateral Line

From Dorsal Fin To Occiput

rrp-r

1

1

>

I

r

1

I
1

1

>

I

I

I

M II

I

I

II |ll

I

l|

I

M

I

I

10

20

20

30

40

50

70

60

|1

M

II

I

90

so"'

1

I

|1 II

1

I

I

I

100

110

II l|

1

II

I

120

Fig. 151.
The use of the hybrid index method of Hubbs to compare
parent and hybrid populations of suckers with respect to five scale counts.

(From Hubbs, Hubbs, and Johnson in Contribution 22 from the Laboratory of Vertebrate Biology of the University of Michigan.)

is

little

backcrossing to the parental types.

Hybrids were not

common, and no real hybrid populations were built up, indicating that interspecific hybridization has not been important in

the origin of species in the Catostomidae.

Speciation

531

These index methods have received considerable attention of
late

among geneticists who

lution, speciation,

taxonomists

are interested in a study of evo-

and hybridization.

They are useful also to

and others who may be interested

in

natural

populations.

Speciation

We might now consider some of the factors that bring about
the formation of new species.
is

called speciation

Such species formation in nature
and can well be illustrated by Crepis and

Oenothera.
Crepis.

A genus that has been studied intensively for a num-

ber of years from the points of view of taxonomy, genetics, cytogenetics,

and plant geography

is

the composite genus Crepis,

which belongs to the tribe Cichorieae and is closely related to
Lactuca and Hieracium. We shall point out briefly a few of the
important genetic processes which have been operative in speciation and have been discovered largely through the extensive
and intensive studies of Babcock and his many co-workers. Babcock recognizes 196 species of Crepis, of which he has grown and
studied 113.

The genetic processes which have operated in speciation can
be divided into the primary genetic processes and the secondary
genetic processes.

The first group includes gene mutations and

changes in the structure of the chromosomes, whereas the sec-

ondary processes are interspecific hybridization, polyploidy, and
apomixis.

One of the most important factors in speciation in the genus
is

gene mutation, a process that appears to occur frequently.

Gene mutations have brought about numerous morphological
and physiological variations within certain species and have apparently also been important in the differentiation of species after
reproductive

has

In a few species gene
mutation has also apparently brought about sterility in certain
isolation

occurred.

appear to have resulted from a cross
between two parents that do not differ as to any large duplications, translocations, or other structural aberrations.
This Fi
hybrid sterility is an example of a reproductive isolating mechanism that functions solely as the result of gene action. Finally,
and this is apparently not too well established, gene action apinterspecific hybrids that

Cytogenetics and Evolution

532

pears to have resulted in both a shortening of the length of the
chromosomes and a general reduction in the size of the plant
in some species.

Changes in the shape, number, and size of the chromosomes
have been an important factor in evolution in Crepis. One of
the effects of these changes is to cause sterility in interspecific

and thus to erect a barrier to hybridization that can
allow the accumulation of mutations in the two isolated strains

hj^brids

liiiii

C. kashmirica 100

C. sibirica 81

llM.J

ifill
lllli

ll"M
C. Mungierii 46

Fig. 152.

C. conyzaefolia 71

C capillaris 38

If

C. leontodontoides 38

C. Suffreniana 21

C. fuUginosa 22

Idiograms showing the evolution of karyotypes in Crepis. For
(Redrawn from Babcock, Stebbins, and Jenkins in

discussion, see text.

the American Naturalist.)

to differentiate them sufficiently so that they are considered new

Changes in chromosome structure, however, have also
led to changes in the number and morphology of the chromospecies.

somes in some species.
Ninety-six species have been examined for chromosome numThree species have seven haploid chromosomes, 14 have
ber.
six,

19 have five, 57 have four, whereas in 3 species, n = 3.

Mor-

phological studies indicate that the six-chromosome and fivechromosome types are primitive and suggest that the others are

Babcock believes furthermore that coincident with or following a reduction in the number of the chromosomes there has been a reduction in the size of the plants and a

derived from them.

shows the relative
lengths and the shapes of the chromosomes in the extreme spe-

specialization

of

the

plants.

Figure

152

cies whose haploid chromosome number equals 3, 4, 5, or 6.

The

533

Speciation

reduction in chromosome nmiiber has apparently resulted from
changes in chromosome structure, especially reciprocal translocation.

Some work of Tobgy has illustrated how reduction in chromosome number could occur. He compared the chromosomes of
Crepis neglecta, which can be designated A, B, C, and D, with
the chromosomes of C. juliginosa. This latter species has an A and

D chromosome that are similar
structurally to the A and D chroa

«

mosomes of neglecta, except for one
Most of
reciprocal translocation.
the B chromosomes of the two
species are homologous, but the

5 J J i
I '
|

B

C. neglecta

a Z 1

II

31

C.fuliginosa 22

of juliginosa contains also the es,

i-t

Fig. 153.

r

part of chromosome C oi
^
neglecta.
The other arm of this
,

.

sential

i

c

1

t

Karyotypes of two
r^

•

species 01 Crepis.

^

^•

l^or discus-

(Redrawn from
Babcock, Stebbins, and Jenkins
in the American Naturalist.)
gioj,^

C chromosome and its centromere

g^g text

from C. juliginosa
Apparently a recipro(Fig. 153).
cal translocation occurred between chromosomes B and C of
either neglecta or a four-chromosome ancestor which placed
the large part of a C chromosome on the B.
The remainder

are

missing

of the original

C was then lost.

In considering the effect of

chromosome complement (or karyotype) Babcock, Stebbins, and Jenkins consider that the change in the
chromosomes is not a direct cause of speciation, but creates an
interspecific sterility that acts as a reproductive isolating mechchanges

in the

anism,

since

the

,

neglecta-juliginosa

Fi

hybrids were highly

sterile.

Interspecific hybridization has not been nearly so important

a factor in speciation in Crepis as in some other genera.

A few

have arisen by amphidiploidy, but allopolyploidy has not approached gene mutation or structural changes
in importance.
The same can be said also of polyploidy and
apomixis, which have played a definite but not an extensive part
species apparently

in the evolution of this genus.

Evolutionary phenomena in Oenothera have interested geneticists for many years as they present some probOenothera.

lems that were very puzzling for a long time.

Among the intrachromosomal aberrations that we discussed
in

Chapter 24 were reciprocal translocations.

Their effect on

Cytogenetics and Evolution

534
circle

formation in Datura was pointed out, and we showed

that numerous interchanges had also occurred in Oenothera.

In

numerous complexes are found. Each complex
consists of a haploid set of chromosomes whose ends are arranged in a definite way and which possesses a certain group
of alleles by which it can often be identified from purely genetic
Thus we pointed out that Oenothera Lamarckiana
evidence.
consists of two complexes, velans and gaudens. Because of balanced lethals, all velans velans and all gaudens 'gaudens plants
die at a very early stage. Some complexes have lost their lethal
or never had any lethals and can therefore exist in a homozygous condition; this is true of the complex ^Hooheri (haploHookeri). By crossing it with various complex heterozygotes,
and by crossing them together as well, the interchanges that have
given rise to the various complexes can be determined and
this latter genus

'

identified.

Figure 154, originally published by Cleland, shows the relaIn this figure,
tionship between a number of the complexes.

each

circle is a

complex.

The complexes that are related ge-

netically are placed close together or overlap, whereas those that

most of their known genes are placed far apart.
Complexes connected by a solid line are normally associated
differ in all or

together in one of the types that occur in nature; those that are
joined by a broken line have been found in plants that have

been produced in the experimental field.

The number and size

of the circles formed by two complexes are indicated on the line

The somatic chromosome number of each type
When the number of chromosomes in all the circles to-

that joins them.
is

28.

gether in one plant is subtracted from 28, the remaining chro-

mosomes are found in pairs.
Because of reciprocal translocations and balanced lethals, the
Oenotheras present some taxonomic problems not found in most
other genera. The genus is a far-ranging one in the Western
Hemisphere. Fifteen subgenera are in existence and all are found
in North America, but almost all the cytological studies have
been upon the subgenus Euoenothera. The taxonomic situation
has been worked out largely by Cleland and Munz. In California, Northern Mexico, and adjacent territory reciprocal translocation has not occurred, except very rarely. Almost all plants
from this vast area show only paired chromosomes at meiosis

Speciation

535

13

Cytogenetics and Evolution

536

and lack any lethals. There are no true-breeding complex heterozygotes, and the situation with respect to species and speciation
In Arizona, New Mexico,
is comparable to that in most genera.
and Utah, however, some or all the plants of a population will
have circles of intermediate size. Lethals, both balanced and
other kinds, are also present in a few plants.

Spreading out into

Colorado on the east and Washington on the north, most of the
plants have a circle of fourteen and balanced lethals, so that all
plants breed true. It is in these areas in which circles are found
that the taxonomic problems arise, for a great many genetic types
exist that are

very difficult to classify.

According to Cleland, the Eastern Oenotheras are characterized by the presence of a large number of races, each of which is
a complex heterozygote. These races breed true, although they
are often highly heterozygous, because of balanced lethals. Sevfound together in the same area, but
they are usually reproductively isolated because of a strong
tendency to self-pollination. These barriers must be broken
down from time to time, as otherwise heterozygous types would
not have arisen. On the whole, however, they are very effective
eral races frequently are

widespread crossing and the formation of hybrid
A taxonomic study is rendered even more difficult by

in preventing

swarms.

the fact that in many races one of the complexes masks the other

phenotypically so that the presence of the hidden complex cannot be detected without breeding studies.
factors are the great number

Further complicating

of such races, the inability to dis-

complexes with the same arrangement of their translocated chromosomal segments may be present in more than one race. Larger
groupings exist than the true-breeding races or biotypes, and
they have more or less distinctive cytogenetic behavior. L^nfor-

tinguish certain races phenotypically, and the fact that

tunately, however, these groups cannot always be distinguished

from one another by their phenotypes, and for that reason there
has been considerable hesitancy in referring them to the category of species.

Summarizing the problem of evolution in the Oenotheras, Cleland points out that as a group they have arisen relatively
recently but that they have nevertheless developed a rather
unusual combination of characters that results in a very effective
isolating mechanism. This isolation has permitted the accumu-

Gene Frequencies

537

numbers of recessive lethal and other mutations
and has prevented the recombinations of numerous genes with
the concomitant origin of many genetic types upon which natural
lation of large

selection can act.

Interracial hybrids do not occur frequently

and, when they do, those with a circle of fourteen are perpetuated

In the Oenotheras, a large
number of forms has arisen, but they do not behave in the way
that they would in a freely interbreeding population.
indefinitely as true-breeding types.

Apparently the balanced lethal mechanism which renders
some complex heterozygotes permanently true-breeding also ensures them of the advantages of heterosis.
In all the "half
mutants," where the loss of one lethal allows homozygotes to
be formed, these homozygotes are quite markedly inferior to
the corresponding complex heterozygotes.

Gene Frequencies

We showed in Chapter 6 that if a heterozygote, Aa, is selffertilized, it will

lAA

:

tions.

2Aa

:

laa.

produce an offspring whose genotypic ratio is
This was predicated upon several assump-

It assumed that any egg could be fertilized by any sperm,

was equally frequent, that each type of
sperm was equally frequent, and that all possible types of offspring could be formed and would be viable. We demonstrated
That
this graphically in Fig. 28 by the checkerboard method.
none of the eggs or sperm was preceded by any number that
would denote their frequency indicated that the A and a eggs
were present in a ratio of 1 1 or that each had a frequency
of 0.5, and that this was also true of the sperm. In other words,
if each type of egg and each type of sperm were present in equal
frequency, the offspring would be present in a ratio of 1 homozygous dominant 2 heterozygous 1 recessive.
The genotypic ratio that is obtained in the Fi by selfing a
heterozygote is the same as the ratio found in the offspring of a
that each type of egg

:

:

:

population of organisms that reproduce sexually, provided that
in

both sexes the gametes bearing the dominant allele and those

bearing the recessive allele are equally frequent, and provided

furthermore that theoretically any egg can be fertilized by any
sperm.

The

additional assumptions must also be

made

that

the homozygous dominant, heterozygous, and recessive types all

538

Cytogenetics and Evolution

can form and develop, that they are all equally fertile, and that
Selection of mates and mutations of
the population is large.
the genes must also be excluded. This condition would be met if
equal numbers of AA and aa organisms were suddenly placed
together in the same area so that each would have an equal
opportunity of mating with one like itself or with one of the
other type. All the offspring from all these organisms would
then be found in a ratio of lAA 2Aa laa, and repeated successive generations, provided that the original conditions were
unchanged, would also show the same ratio of the three types.
This constant ratio is always found because the ratio of A to
a gametes is always 1 1 for all generations. A checkerboard
for any one generation would be the same as for the heterozygote, because the two types of gametes would be present in the
:

:

:

same frequency both in a heterozygous organism and in a population of many organisms in which there were originally equal
numbers of both the AA and aa types. This principle, discovered in 1904 by Pearson, is a special case of a general rule
formulated independently in 1908 by Hardy and Weinberg.
In most natural populations, however, it is highly improbable
that the original number of AA and aa organisms would be equal.
Let us suppose that some cataclysm opened for invasion a new
territory and that AA and aa plants were near enough to invade. If four times as many AA as aa plants became established in the new territory, the frequency of the A gene would
be four times as great as of the a gene. The ratio of the offspring of these plants could be determined by the checkerboard
method by merely indicating that the gene frequency of A was
0.8 and of a 0.2. The percentage of the offspring of each of the
three types would then be 64AA 32Aa 4aa.
:

:

Gene Frequencies
offspring from this population

'^%^AA

%^Aa

:

:

would again be

539
in the ratio of

^oso^a.

Obviously, the frequencies of the two original types might be

any value.

The general case, the Hardy- Weinberg law, can be

stated by assuming that the original frequency of AA organisms

q and of aa organisms (1 — g). If these values are substituted in the checkerboard, the offspring will fall into the ratio of
is

If the gametes are ob2q{l — q) Aa (1 — q)- aa.
organisms
of
this
generation, they will be
tained from all the
found with the following frequencies:

q-

AA

:

:

A=q^^\' 2g(l - q) = q
a = i

•

2g(l

- g) + (1 - q? =(!-?)

Thus the frequencies of A and a are exactly the same as they
had been for the preceding generation so that the offspring of
this generation will be in the same proportion as this generation
itself.

This proportion is repeated indefinitely so that the gene

frequencies of both the dominant and the recessive genes will

be the same generation after generation unless conditions change.

To state this generally, the two types of gametes in any generaSuch a population is said to be in equilibrium for it will continue to have
tion will be proportional to the gene frequencies.

the same structure unless some change occurs in the given conditions.

Some of the factors that change the gene frequencies

and thus upset the equilibrium are mutation, selection, nonrandom mating, and inbreeding. If, suddenly, one of these factors,
such as mutation of one allele to the other, would arise, the
previous equilibrium would be upset and, provided there were

random mating, a new equilibrium would be established after
one generation. This new equilibrium would then be maintained
unless another change upset

became established.

it

and a still different equilibrium

Equilibrium will be reached when the pro-

portion of heterozygotes is twice the square root of the product
of the two homozygous classes.
is

When there is equilibrium, there

no evolution; but a change in gene frequencies will lead to

evolution.

The use of gene frequencies has become an important method
in an analysis of human traits. This method is especially use-

Cytogenetics and Evolution

540
ful there since

to

the pedigree culture

method cannot be applied

human beings.

Nonchromosomal Inheritance

Up to this point we have studied the behavior and importance
and chromosomes in heredity and evolution. However,
there seems to be considerable evidence that certain bodies in the
cytoplasm such as plastids and mitochondria are autonomous
bodies, reproducing by division and arising apparently only from
the division of preexisting plastids and mitochondria. We might
well inquire, therefore, whether they are of any importance in
of genes

evolution and heredity.

There is definite evidence that the inheritance of chloroplasts
sometimes is merely a matter of the division of the plastids themThe discovery of this type of inheritance dates back to
selves.
the early days of genetics to the work of Correns on the fourThe normal chloroplasts in the leaves
o'clock, Mirabilis jalapa.
of this plant are dark green in color, but in one particular strain

have plastids which have considerably
Areas with these
less than the normal amount of chlorophyll.
chlorophyll-deficient chloroplasts are consequently very pale
In regions where the normal
green, pale yellowish, or white.
both cells with normal
contiguous,
green and the white areas are

large areas of the leaves

and with defective chloroplasts are to" be found.
Plants with green and wliite areas in the leaves are variegated,
and frequently this condition may apply to branches as well as
chloroplasts

In Mirabilis, for example, occasionally entire branches
may be white on an otherwise green or on a mottled green and

to leaves.

white plant, and some branches also may contain patches of both
green and white cells.

Apparently independently of the genotype of a variegated
plant, all the seeds developed on wholly green branches produce
only plants which are entirely green whereas those seeds that
develop on a white branch of the same plant produce only plants

normal chlorophyll. When seeds that develop on the branches which are a mosaic of green and white
tissue are planted, some of the resulting plants are completely
Norgreen, some are variegated, and others are wholly white.
entirely deficient in

mally, chloroplasts are developed in the seed but not ip the
pollen grain or pollen tube so that all the chloroplasts a plant

Xonchromosomal Inheritance

541

has can be traced back through plastid division to the plastids
Therefore, the factor
that were present in the embryo sacs.
that determines the plastid condition of a plant is the situation
in the

embryo sac, which in turn is a matter of the plastid situ-

ation in the particular part of the plant that gave rise to that

embryo sac.
is

Thus, in ^lirabilis, the inheritance of chlorophyll

purely a maternal matter.

An interesting plastid behavior has been reported in Oenothera,
by Renner, who also first suggested the presence of complexes
in that genus. If Oe. Lamarckiana is crossed with the California
species, Oe, Hookeri, two types of hybrids are produced, Hookerilaeta, which has the complexes ^hookeri and gaudens, and HookIf Hookeri
eri- velutina, with the complexes ^hookeri and velans.
enters ttfe cross as the female parent, both types of hybrid off-

spring are normally green.

When, however, Lamarckiana is the

female parent, the velutina hybrids are pale yellow and usually
die at a very early stage, although the laeta hybrids are normal

has been assumed by way of explanation that the
two species have different kinds of plastids, a not impossible supin color.

It

when one considers the long period of complete isolaThe further assumption is
tion under which they developed.
made that Lamarckiana plastids are not able to survive when
the genetic constitution of the plant is made up of the velans
position

and ^hookeri complexes.

A peculiar feature of Oenothera is that

a few chloroplasts enter the zygote through the pollen tube, al-

though far more are normally introduced through the embryo
When Oe. Hookeri is the female, some Lamarckiana plassac.
tids enter the zygote from the pollen tube but a great many more
Hookeri plastids are introduced through the female side. In the
velutina hybrids, probably the Lamarckiana plastids disintegrate,
for these hybrids usually had a few yellowish spots although as
Supposedly these yellowish spots
a whole the plant was green.
have chloroplasts which came from the male parent and deIn like manner, in the velutina hybrids from the
generated.

some of the plants had green spots although
most of the plant was yellowish. The green spots are believed
to be from Hookeri chloroplasts that entered the zygote through
the pollen tube and survived, whereas the Lamarckiana plastids
that came from the embryo sac, and, therefore, were far more
reciprocal cross,

numerous, degenerated.

Cytogenetics and Evolution

542

These examples of plastid inheritance could be increased by
the addition of many more, and yet most chlorophyll deficiencies
are the result of the direct contact of definite genes, probably
all of which are recessives.
Many genes for albinism or for
virescent seedlings have been identified in maize and other plants.
Another well-known example of the importance of the cytoplasm is the study of the moss, Funaria, by Wettstein. Hybrids
between F. mediterranea and F. hygrometrica resemble the
mother in most of their characters. Thus when mediterranea is
the female parent, the offspring have small sporocarps with tall,
acute opercula, leaf midribs that do not extend out to the apex,
leaf apices which are filamentous, and paraphyses which are
spiral.

In all those characters, these hybrids resemble mediter-

ranea.

On the other hand, when hygrometrica is the female par-

ent, the sporocarps are larger and

leaf midribs

have broad, flat opercula, the

extend out to the apex, the leaf apices are not

filamentous, and the paraphyses are not spiral.

In these charac-

the Fi hybrids resemble hygrometrica.

Wettstein back-

ters,

crossed the hybrids a

number of times so as to be certain to

have the nucleus of one species in the cytoplasm of the other.
No modification of the cytoplasm under the influence of the
nucleus of the other species appeared to result even after a number of backcross generations.
The conclusion from this work
seems without doubt to indicate that the cytoplasm possesses
some hereditary potentiality.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1.

Winge has shown that

in

Taraxacum a great many individuals

have arisen that were morphologically distinct. Each individual has
multiplied vegetatively and has formed a large clone. These clones are
easily recognizable. Should each be considered a separate species? Explain.
»

2.

If not, how should they be considered?

Explain.

How can j^ou explain the great difficulty that arises in identifying

the species of some genera (such as Crataegus) ?

Does that indicate

anything concerning the age of the genus?
3.

A population of snails showing some variation is bisected by a

small stream which has changed its course.

Discuss all the factors that

might arise after this geographical isolation had occurred which could
result in the origin of new species of snails within the area.

than one new species arise on one side of the stream?
4.

What is meant by the age-and-area concept?

Could more

Questions and Problems
5.

543

Two populations of the same species are 2000 miles apart. Over
nmnerous small mutations accumulate, many of

a long period of time,

same

After a considerable period, they

which

affect

differ

with respect to plant height, corolla

the

characters.

size,

seed weight, and the

These differences are noticeable but not great, but
Should the two new populations be
classed as new species? Would your answer be the same if, in addition
to these differences, they also produced hybrids that were partially or
lengths of the leaves.

all are the result

of multiple genes.

completely sterile?
6.

Explain.

Would your answer to question 5 be different if, instead of differ-

ing in those quantitative characters, the
to

respect

two populations differed with

opposite or alternate leaves, bicarpellate

or tricarpellate

ovaries, and pubescent or glabrous leaves, assuming that each of these

three character differences is determined by a single pair of alleles?

As-

sume both sterility and nonsterility of the hybrids.
7. Oenothera hiennis is composed of two complexes,

and

rubens, but breeds true.

When it

is

crossed

forms two types of plants

(twin hybrids),

rubens • -'Hookeri.

If selfed, both these

Explain.

albicans

with Oe. Hookeri,

albicans • ^Hookeri

it

and

twin hybrids produce

two types of progeny in their offspring. What would they be, and in
what ratios?
8. Oe. Lamarckiana has the complexes gaudens and velans, and
The cross LamarckOe. chicaginensis has punctulans and excellens.
iana X chicaginensis gives two types of plants, gaudens punctulans and
velans punctulans, and the reciprocal cross gives excellens gaudens
and excellens velans. However, when Lamarckiana is crossed with
Oe. grandiflora, which has acuens and truncans, four types are found,
gaudens acuens, velans acuens, gaudens truncans, and velans trun•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Explain.

cans.

The segmental arrangement in the complex ^Hookeri is 1 2, 3 4,
5 6, 7 8, 9
14. Complex flavens differs from it only
10, 11
12, 13
Complex velans differs
in having 1*4, 3*2 instead of 1*2, 3*4.
from ^Hookeri in having 5*8, 7*6; acuens differs from it by 1 4,
3-2, 7-10, 9-8; and ^Johansen is different by 7 10, 9 8. All
•

9.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

other chromosomes in these complexes are the same as in ^Hookeri.

How many circles and pairs would be found in all the possible combinations of two of those five complexes?
10.

one

Red flower color (W) is dominant to white (w).

WW plant became established on an isolated island.

Ten

WW and

If

complete

freedom of crossing and complete \4ability of offspring were assumed,

what would be the composition of the plants on the island after three
generations ?

GENERAL REFERENCES
Altexburg. E.

1945.

Genetics,

xii

Co.
Babcock, E. B., and R. E. Clausen.

2nd ed.

ture.

Balls, W. L.

Baur, E.

1927.

Genetics in relation to agricul-

+ 673 pp. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.
The cotton -plant in Egypt, studies in physiology and
London: Macmillan and Co.

+ 202 pp.

xvi

genetics,

xiv

1912.

+ 452 pp. New York: Henn' Holt and

1930.

Einfilhrung in die Vererbungslehre.

11th ed.

Berlin:

Borntraeger.

Baur, E., E. Fischer, and F. Lexz. 1931. Human heredity. New York:
The Macmillan Co.
556 pp. New
Caix, S. a. 1944. Foundations of plant geography, xiv

+

York

Harper & Bros.

:

CocELAYNE, E. A.
ages.

CoRREXS, C.

Inherited abnormalities of the skin and its append-

1933.

X 4- 394 pp.
1912.

London: Oxford L'niversit}' Press.
Die neuen Vererbungsgesetze.

viii

+ 75 pp.

Berlin:

Borntraeger.

Crew, F. A. E.
bridge

:

1927.

The genetics of sexuality in animals.

188 pp.

Cam-

L"'niversity Press.

Recent advances in cytology. 2nd ed. xiv +
Son and Company.
Darlington, C. D., and E. K. Janaki Ammal. 1946. Chromosome atlas of
cultivated plants. 397 pp. London: Allen and L^nwin.
Darwin, Charles. 1868. The variation of animals and plants under domestication. Vol. 1. viii 4- 411 pp. London: John Murray.
Darwin, Ch.\rles. 1877. Effects of cross- and self-fertilization in the vegetable kingdom, viii + 482 pp. New York: D. Appleton Co.
Davenport, C. B., and M. P. Ekas. 1936. Statistical methods in biology,
medicine and psychology. 4th ed, xii -f 216 pp. New York: John Wiley
Darlington, C. D.
671 pp.

1937.

Philadelphia

:

P. Blakiston's

& Sons.
Demerec, M., Editor. 1947. Advances in genetics.
New York: Academic Press.
De Vries, H. 1909. The mutation theory. 2 vols.

Vol.

1.

xvi -{- 458 pp.

Chicago: Open Court

Publishing Co.

Dobzhansky, Th. 1937. Genetics and the origin of species, xvi + 364 pp.
New York: Columbia L'niversity Press,
Dobzh.^nsky, Th. 1941. Genetics and the origin of species. 2nd ed.
xviii + 446 pp.
New York: Columbia University Press.
Fisher, R. A. 1938. Statistical methods for research workers. 7th ed.
Edinburgh: Oliver and Boyd.
Gates, R, R.

1946.

Human genetics.

Macmillan Company.
545

Vols. I

and II,

New York: The

546

General References

GoLDSCHMiDT, R. 1938. Physiological genetics, ix + 375 pp. New York
McGraw-Hill Book Co.
GoLDSCHMiDT, R. 1940. The material basis of evolution. New Haven:
Yale University Press.
Hegner, R. H. 1937. College zoology. 3rd ed. xvi + 742 pp. New York
The Macmillan Co.
Huxley, J., Editor. 1940. The new systematics. viii -j- 583 pp. Oxford
University Press,

JoHANNSEN, W.

Vher Erblichkeit in Populationen und in reinen
Jena G. Fischer.
Jones, W. N. 1934. Plant chimaeras and graft hybrids, viii -j- 136 pp.
London: Methuen and Co.
Lang, A. 1905. Ueber die Mendelschen Gesetze, Art- und VarietdtenbilLinien.

1903.

68 pp.

:

dung, Mutation und Variation, insbesondere bei unseren Hain- und Gar-

tenschnecken

Mather, K.

.

Vortrag.

1938.

Schweiz,

Naturf.

Gesellsch.

Liizern.

The measurement of linkage in heredity,

ix

+ 132 pp.

New York: Chemical Publishing Co.
Matsuura, H. 1933. A bibliographical monograph on plant genetics, 19251929. Sapporo Hokkaido University.
Morgan, T. H. 1927. Experimental embryology, xi + 766 pp. New
York Columbia University Press.
Morgan, T. H. 1928. The theory of the gene, xviii + 358 pp. New
Haven: Yale University Press.
MouLTON, F, R., Editor. 1940. The genetics of pathogenic organisms.
:

:

90 pp.

The Science Press.

Lancaster, Pa.:

Muller, H. J. 1939. Bibliography on the genetics of Drosophila. 132 pp.
Edinburgh Oliver and Boyd.
Muller, H. J., C. C. Little, and L. H. Snyder. 1947. Genetics, medicine,
and man. 171 pp. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Onslow% M. Wheldale. 1925. The anthocyanin pigments of plants, viii
Cambridge University Press.
-f- 314 pp.
Pearl, R. 1940. Introduction to m,edical biometry and statistics. 3rd ed.,
revised and enlarged, xv + 537 pp. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co.
Pearson, K. 1930. Tables for statisticians and biometricians. Part I. 3rd
ed. Cambridge University Press.
Pfeiffer, H. H.
1940. Experimentelle Cytologic, xii + 243 pp. Leiden:
:

:

:

Chronica Botanica Co.
Sansome, F. W., and J. Philp. 1939. Recent advances in plant genetics.
2nd ed. xii + 412 pp. Philadelphia: P. Blakiston's Son and Company.
ScHiEMANN, E. 1932. Entstehung der Kulturpflanzen. Handbuch d. Vererbungswissenschaft 3:1-377. Translated into English by E. Midgard as
Work Projects Administration No. 3888 O. P. 165-1-93-11.
ScHRADER, F. 1944, Mitosis. 110 pp. New York: Columbia University
Press.

Sharp, L. W.

1934.

Introduction to cytology.

3rd ed.

York: McGraw-Hill Book Co,
Sharp, L, W. 1943. Fundamentals of cytology,
McGraw-Hill Book Co,

x

xiv

+ 567 pp. New

+ 270 pp. New York:

547

Specific References

Shull, a. F.

1938.

Heredity,

xvii

Book Co.
SiNNOTT, E. W., and L. C. Duxx.
xiv

+ 442 pp. New York: McGraw-Hill
1939.

Principles of genetics.

3rd ed.

+ 408 pp. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.

SxEDECOR, C. W.

1940. Statistical methods applied to experiments in

culture and biology,

xii

agn-

+ 422 pp. Ames, Iowa The Iowa State College
:

Press.

Snyder, L. H. 1929. Blood grouping in relation to clinical and legal medicine. Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins Co.
Snyder, L. H. 1940. The piinciples of heredity. 2nd ed. x 4-452 pp.
New York: D. C. Heath and Co.
Snyder, L. H. 1941. Medical genetics, vii -f- 130 pp. Durham: Duke
University Press.

Sturtevant, a. H., and G. W. Beadle. 1939.
391 pp. Philadelphia W. B. Saunders Co.

An introduction to genetics.

:

Waddington, C. H. 1939. An introduction to modem genetics. 441 pp.
New York: The Macmillan Co.
Warner, M. F., M. A. Sherman, and E. M. Colvin. 1934. A bibliography
of plant genetics.

U.S.D.A. Miscellaneous Publications 164:1-552.

White, M. J. D. 1937. The chromosomes, viii + 125 pp. New York:
Chemical Publishing Co.
Wiener, A. S. 1943. Blood groups and transfusion. 3rd ed. xix -}- 438 pp.
Springfield, 111.: Charles C Thomas.
Wilson, E. B. 1928. The cell in development and heredity. 3rd ed.
xxxvii + 1232 pp. New York: The Macmillan Co.
Yule, G. U., and M. G. Kendall. 1937. An introduction to the theory of
12th ed. London: J. B. Lippincott Company.
statistics.

SPECIFIC REFERENCES

CHAPTER 1
Recherches sur la maturation de Toeuf, la feR.
condation et la division cellulaire. Archiv. de Biol. 4:265-641.
mitostructures
Les
Chambers. 1925. Etudes de microdissection. IV.
chondriales et nucleaires dans les cellules germinales males de la sauterelle.
W. Flemming. 1879. tJber das Verhalten des
La Cellide 35 105-124.
E. van Beneden.

1883.

:

Kernes bei der Zelltheihmg und liber die Bedeutung mehrkemiger Zellen.
Beobachtungen liber
1884.
F. Heuser.
Virchow's Arch. 77:1-29.
Husted. 1926. An
27-157.
L.
Zellkerntheilung. Biol. Centralbl. 17
aid of X-ray inwith
the
analysis of chromosome structure and behavior
B. P. Kaufmann. 1926.
duced rearrangements. Genetics 21 :537-553.
Chromosome structure and its relation to the chromosome cycle. I. Somatic mitosis in Tradescantia pilosa Lehm. Amer. J. Bot. 13:59-80.
:

Specific References

548

K. Mather and L. H. A. Stone,
matic chromosomes.

some

structure.

1933.

J. Genet. 28:1-24

The effect of X-radiation on soB. R. Nebel. 1929. Chromo-

On coiling of chromosomes.

Amer. Natur. 73:289-299.

H. P. Riley. 1936. The effect of X-rays on the chromosomes of
H. J. Sax and K. Sax.
Tradescantia gigantea. Cytologia 7:131-142.
1936, An analysis of chromosome structure and behavior with the aid of
E, W, Sinnott
X-ray induced reaiTangements. Genetics 31:537-553.
and R. Bloch. 1941, Division in vacuolated plant cells. Amer. J. Bot.
20:225-232,

CHAPTER 2
C. B. Bridges and T. H. Morgan. 1919. Contributions to the genetics of
Drosophila melanogaster. II. The second chromosome group of mutant
W. Landauer
Carnegie Inst. Wash. Publ. 278:123-304,
characters.
Weight
and
size
of
organs
in
frizzle
fowl. Storrs
1936.
Upham.
and E.

T. H. Morgan.

Agric. Exp. Sta. Bull. 210:3-42.

C. B. Bridges, and A. H. Sturtevant.

The origin of

1911.

nine wing mutations in Drosophila. Science 33 :496-499.

T. H. Morgan,

The genetics of Drosophila.

1925.

H. J. Muller. 1926. The gene as the basis
K.
Proc. Internat. Cong. Plant Sci. (Ithaca) 1:897-921.
of Hfe.
Hereditas
15:
the
garden
bean.
linkage
groups
in
Tjebbes. 1931. Two
185-193.
C. H. Waddington. 1940. The physicochemical nature of
the chromosome and the gene. Biol. Symposia 1 :200-214.
Bibliogr. Genet. 2:1-262.

CHAPTER 3
J.

Addair and L. H. Snyder.

Evidence for an autosomal recessive

1942.

gene for susceptibility to paralytic poliomyelitis. Studies in human inheritance XXI. J. Hered. 33:307-309.
C. E. Allen. 1936. The genetics
of Brj'ophytes.
Bot. Rev. 1:269-291.
E. G. Anderson and R. A.

Emerson,

1923.

Pericarp studies in maize.

I.

The inheritance of pericarp

Anderson-Kotto. 1931. Genetics of
ferns.
R. J. A. Berry. 1941. An investigation into the mental states of the parents and sibs of 1050 mentally defective persons. Proc. VII Internat. Genet. Cong.: 64.
A, F. Blakescolors.

lee.

Genetics 8:466-476.
Bibliogr. Genet. 8 -.2^-2^.

1932.

1.

Genetics of sensory thresholds: taste for phenylthiocarbamide.
A. F. Blakeslee. 1935. Demonstra-

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 18 120-130.
:

tion of differences between people in the sense of smell.
72-84.

C. Brugger.

1941.

The

Sci.

Monthly 41

genetic uniformity of mental de-

ficiency without marked physical signs.
82.

lergy.

Proc. VII Internat. Genet. Cong.:
C. S. BucHER and C, E. Keeler. 1934. The inheritance of al/. Allergy 5:611-614.
J. M, Capinpin.
1937. Inheritance of

nanism in man. J. Hered. 28:361-362.
C. B. D.wenport and J. W.
Blankinship. 1923. Body build and its inheritance, Carnegie Inst. Wash.
Publ. 329:1-176.
L. C. Dunn, S. Gluecksohn-Schoenheimer. and V.
Bryson. 1940. A new mutation in the mouse. J. Hered. 31 :343-348.
H. K. Fink. 1940. Hereditary epistaxis in man. J. Hered. 31:319-322.
L. C. Glass and D. H. Yost. 1939. Inherited inability to sweat. J.

Specific References

549

Hered. 30:477-478.
R. A. Hefner. 1940. Inherited Polydactyly associated with extra phalanges in the thumbs. J. Hered. 31 :25-27.
R.
A. Hefner. 1941. Crooked little fingers. Minor streblomicrodactyly. J.
F. B. Hutt and G. P. Child.
Hered. 32:37-38.
1934.
Congenital
tremor in young chicks. ./. Hered. 25:341-350.
C. E. Keeler. 1934.
The heredit}^ of a congenital white spotting in negroes. ,/. Amer. Med.
M. T. M.acklin. 1934. Inherited anomalies of
Assoc. 103:179-180.

metabolism II. J. Hered. 25: 12^-12Q.
R. Pe.\rl. 1928. Experiments
E. Potter.
1937.
on longevity. Quart. Rev. Biol. 3:391-407.
A
L. H. Snyder.
hereditary ear malformation. J. Hered. 28:255-258.
1934.
Modern analysis of human behavior. Eugenical News 19:61-69.
L. H. Snyder and G. M. Curtis. 1934. An inherited "hollow chest."
Koilosternia, a new character dependent upon a dominant autosomal gene.
1939.
The inheritance of
./.
Hered. 25:445-446.
S. E. Stodd.ard.
''natural bangs." Catatrichy, a new character dependent upon a dominant
autosomal gene. J. Hered. 30: 5i3-5iQ.
H. H. Str-ANdskov. 1939. Inheritance of absence of thumbnails. J. Hered. 30:53-54.

CHAPTER 4
C. A. Berger.

1938.

Prophase chromosome behavior in the division of

D.
with multiple chromosome complexes. J. Hered. 29:351-357.
C. Cooper. 1935. Macrosporogenesis and development of the embiyo sac

cells

of Lilium Henryi.

Bat. Gaz. 97:346-355.

B. P. K.\ufmann.

1936.

Chromosome structure in relation to the chromosome cycle. Bat. Rev. 2:
B. R. Nebel. 1939. Chromosome structure. Bot. Rev. 5:
563-566.
K. Sax and L. M. Humphrey. 1934. Structure of meiotic
529-553.

chromosomes in microsporogenesis of Tradescantia.

Bot. Gaz. 96:353-362.

CHAPTER 5
Sur la structure de noj'au des cellules salivaires
Zool. Anzeiger 4:637-641; 662-666.
W. R. Duryee. 1938. A microdissection study of amphibian chromosomes.
Biol. Bidl. 75:345.
E. Heitz. 1935. Chromosomenstruktur und Gene.
E. Heitz and
Zeits. f. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 70:402-447.
E. G. Balbiani.

1881.

chez les larv^es de Chironomus.

H. Bauer. 1933. Beweis fiir die Chromosomennatur der Kernschleifen in
den Knauelkernen von Bibio hortulanus L. Zeits. Zellj. u. mikr. Aiiat. 17:
67-82.
C. E. McClung. 1902. The accessory chromosome-sex determinant? Biol Bidl. 3:43-84.
T. S. P.\inter. 1933. A new method
for the study of chromosome rearrangements and the plotting of chromoSalivary
1934.
some maps. Science 78:585-586.
T. S. Painter.
25:464-476.
J. T.
chromosomes and the attack on the gene. J. Hered.
Patterson et al. 1940. Studies in the genetics of Drosophila. Univ. Texas
G. H. Shull. 1910. Inheritance of sex in Lychnis.
Publ. 4032 11-256.
Bot. Gaz. 49:110-125.
G. H. Shull. 1911. Reversible sex-mutants in
Sex1914.
Lychnis dioica. Bot. Gaz. 52:329-368.
G. H. Shull.
u.
Abstamm.indukt.
Zeits,
limited inheritance in Lychnis dioica L.
/.
:

Specific References

550

H. E. Warmke. 1946. Sex determination
Vererb-lehre 12:265-302.
E. B.
and sex balance in Melandrium. Amer. J. Bot. 33:648-660.
relation
to
the
determination
chromosomes
in
of
sex
The
Wilson. 1905.
22:500-502.
E. B. Wilson. 1911. The sex chroin insects. Science
mosomes. Arch. /. mikro. Anat. 77:249-271.

CHAPTER 6
C. Hallquist.

1921.

The inheritance of the flower colour and the seed

R. A. Hefner.
Crooked little fingers (minor streblomicrodactyly). J. Hered. 32:
1941.
37-38.
G. H. Shull. 1929. Species hybridizations among old and
new species of shepherd's purse. Proc. Internal. Cong. Plant Set. (Ithaca)
1:837-888.
B. L. Warwick and P. B. Dunkle. 1939. Inheritance of
horns in sheep. J. Hered. 30:325-329.
colour in Lupinus angustijolius.

Hereditas 2:299-363.

CHAPTER 7
1912.
Ein Fall von geschlechtesbegrenzter Vererbung bei
E. Baur.
Melandrium album. Zeits. f. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre. 8:335-336.
L. Doncaster. 1908. On sex-inheritance in the moth Abraxas grossuReports to the Evol. Com. Roy. Soc.
lariata and its variety lacticolor.
T. H. Morgan. 1910. Sex-limited inheritance
(London) IV:53-57.
1912.
Eight
T. H. Morgan.
in Drosophila.
Science 32:120-122.
factors that show sex-limited inheritance in Drosophila. Science 35:472-473.
T. H. Morgan. 1914. Sex-limited and sex-linked inheritance. Amer.
Natur. i8 -.577-583.
T. H. Morgan and E. Cattell. 1912. Data for

the study of sex-linked inheritance in Drosophila.
L. H. Snyder.

Ohio

philia.

J.

Sci.

1932.

Studies in

32:152-157.

J.

Exp. Zool. 13:79-101.

human inheritance.

C. Stern.

1929.

VII.

Hemo-

Untersuchungen

liber Aberrationen des Y-Chromosoms von Drosophila melanogaster.

Zeits.

f. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 51:253-353.

CHAPTER 8
S.

Wright.

1941.

Tests for linkage in the guinea pig.

Genetics 26:650-

669.

CHAPTER 9
C. V. Beers and L. A. Clark.
pedigree.

J. Z^erec?.

1942.

Tumors and short-toe
E. E. Carothers.

33:366-368.

delian ratio in relation to certain Orthopteran chromosomes.
487-511.

E. E. Carothers.

1917.

—a dihybrid

1913.
J.

The MenMorph. 24

The segregation and recombination

of homologous chromosomes as found in two genera of Acrididae (Orthoptera).

J.

Morp/i. 28:445-520.

M. Demerec.

1924.

of five factor pairs of virescent seedlings in maize.

Genetic relations

Cornell Univ. Agnc.

Specific References

Exp. Sta. Memoir 8^:^38.

551

R.A.Emerson.

tions of plant colors in maize.

1921.

The genetic rela-

Cornell Univ. Agr. Exp. Sta. Memoir 39:1-

156.
1921.
R. A. Emerson.
Crinkly leaf. J. Hered. 12:267-270.

Heritable characters in maize.
A. E. Longley.

1941.

IX.

Chromo-

some morphology in maize and its relatives. Bot. Rev. 7:263-289.
R. Magness. 1937. U.S.D.A. Yearbook of Agriculture. 1937:1450-1456.
E. VON TscHERMAK, 1923, in C. Fruwirth. Handbuch der landwirtschaftlichen Pflanzenzuchtung. Bd. IV. Die Ziichtung der vier Hauptgetreidarten und der Zuckerrube. Berlin.

J.

CHAPTER 10
C. B. Bridges. 1929. Variation in crossing over in relation to age of the
female in Drosophila melanogaster. Carnegie Inst. Wash. Publ. 399:63-89.

R. A. Brink and P. H. Senn. 1931. Heritable characters in maize,
XL. Ragged, a dominant character, linked with A, Tsx, and Di. J. Hered.
22:155-161.
W. E. Castle. 1933. The linkage relations of yellow fat
in

rabbits.

1934.

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.

19:947-950.

Anomalous chromosome pairing

obscura.

in

the

C. D. Darlington.

male Drosophila pseudo-

C. D. Darlington.

Genetics 19:95-118.

over of sex chromosomes in Drosophila.

1934.

Crossing-

Amer. Natur. 68:1-3.

R. A.

Emerson. 1918. A fifth pair of factors, Aa, for aleurone color in maize,
and its relation to the Cc and Rr pairs. Cornell Univ. Agiic. Exp. Sta.
Memoir 16:225-289.
R. A. Emerson, G. W. Beadle, and A. C. Eraser.
1935.

A summaiy of linkage studies in maize.

Sta. Memoir 180:3-83.

H. Friesen.

1933.

ing-over in males of Drosophila melanogaster.

Cornell Univ. Agric. Exp.
Artificially

induced cross-

Science 78:513-514.

H. Friesen. 1934. Kiinstliche Auslosung von Crossing-Over bei Drosophila-Mannchen.
Biol. Zentralbl. 54:65-75.
1930.
F. R. Immer.
Formulae and tables for calculating linkage intensities. Genetics 15:81-98.
H. Plough. 1917. The effect of temperature on crossing over in
Drosophila. J. Exp. Zool. 24:147-209.
H. Plough. 1921. Further
studies on the effect of temperature on crossing over. J. Exp. Zool. 32:
182-202.
R. C. Punnett. 1913. Reduplication series in sweet peas.
G. H. Shull. 1928. A new gene mutation {Mut.
J. Genet. 3:77-103.
Lamarckiana
and its linkage relations. Zeits. /. inbullata) in Oenothera
dukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre. Supplebd. 11:1322-1342.

CHAPTER 11
H. K. Hayes and M. S. Chang.

Recent linkage studies in maize.
Genetics 24:59-60.
W. R. Singleton.
I. Virescent seedling-16 (viq).
Recent linkage studies in maize. V. Opaque endosperm-2 (02).
1939.
Genetics 24 :61.
D. de Winton. 1928. Further linkage work in Pisum
sativum and Primida sinensis.
Supplebd. 11:1594-1600.

1939.

Zeits. j. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre.

Specific References

552

CHAPTER 12
E. G. Anderson and L. F. Randolph. 1945. Location of the centromeres
1922.
J. Bell.
on the linkage maps of maize. Genetics 30:518-526.
Retinitis pigmentosa and aUied diseases. Congenital stationary' night-blindGlioma retinae. Univ. London Gallon Eugenics Lab. Memoir 21
ness.
Univ. London Gallon Eu1926. Colour-blindness.
1_123.
J. Bell.
Bridges.
23:125-267.
1935. SaHvary chroB.
C.
genics Lab. Memoir

C. B. Bridges. 1938. A revised
mosome maps. J. Hered. 26:60-64.
C. E.
map of the salivary gland X-chromosome. J. Hered. 29:11-13.
Bridges and P. X. Bridges. 1939. A revised map of the right limb of the
J. Hered. 30:475-476.
second chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster.
1941. A revised map of the left limb of the third
P. X. Bridges.
P. X.
chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster. J. Hered. 32:64-65.
Bridges. 1941. A revision of the salivary gland 3 R-chromosome map of

Drosophila melanogaster.

J. Hered.

32 :299-300.

P. X. Bridges.

1942.

A new map of the salivaiy gland 2 L-chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster.

Th. Dobzhansky.

Hered. 33:403-408.

J.

Geneti-

1929.

cal and cytological proof of translocations involving the third or the fourth

chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster. Biol. Zentralbl. 49:408-419.
Th. Dobzhansky. 1930. Cytological map of the second chromoTh.
some of Drosophila melanogaster. Biol. Zentralbl. 50:671-685.
Dobzhansky. 1936. Induced chromosomal aberrations in animals. Chapter XXXVIII, in Biological Effects of Radiation (ed. by B. M. Dugg.ar).
A. B. Griffen and W. S.
Xew York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.
Stone. 1940. Studies in the genetics of Drosophila IX. The second arm
Univ. Texas Publ. 4032:
of chromosome 4 in Drosophila m,elanogaster.
1936. A search for incomplete sex link201-207.
J. B. S. Haldane.
J. B. S. H.aldane. 1941. The partial
age in man. A)in. Eug. 7 -.28-57.
sex-linkage of recessive spastic paraplegia.

Kaliss and M. D, Schweitzer.

J.

Genet. 41:141-147.

X.

—

Hereditary hemorrhagic diathesis
T. Komai.
Genetics 28:78.
a case of partial sex-linkage in man?
1934.
Pedigrees of hereditary diseases and abnormalities found in the
D. E. Lancefield. 1922. Linkage relationJapanese Race.. Kyoto.
ships of the sex-linked characters in Drosophila obscura. Genetics 7:3351943.

Locating genes on salivary chromosomes.

384.

O. M.\CKENSEN.

1935.

J. //erec?.

26:163-174.

K. M.\ther.

13:252-292.

T.H.Morgan.

1938.

Crossing-over.

Biol.

Rev.

An attempt to analyze the consti-

1911.

tution of the chromosome on the basis of sex-linked inheritance in Drosophila.
1929.

H. J. Muller and T. S. Painter.
The cytological expression of changes in gene alignment produced by
J.

Exp. Zool. 11:365-413.

T. S. Painter. 1934.
X-rays in Drosophila. Amer. Natur. 63 193-200.
Salivary chromosomes and the attack on the gene. J. Hered. 25:465-476.
1932. Lethal mutations and deficiencies produced
J. T. P.^tterson.
Amer.
in the X-chromosome of Drosophila mela)iogaster by X-radiation.
:

H. W. Siemens and E. Kohn. 1925. Studien
Xeroderma pigmentosum.
Vererbung von Hautkrankheiten, IX.

Natur. 64:193-206.
iiber

553

Specific References

L. H. Snyder
/. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 38:1-61.
and D. M. Palmer. 1943. An idiopathic convulsive disorder with deteriora1936.
Linkage in Pisum.
O. Winge.
tion.
J. Hered. 34:207-212.
Zeits.

Comp. rend. Lab. Carlsberg ser. physiol. 21:271-393.

CHAPTER 13
1911. On gametic series involving reGenet. 1:293-302.
W. Bateson and

W. Bateson and R. C. Punxett.
duplication of certain terms.

R. C. PuNNETT.
Soc.

1911.

B 84:3-8.

Olfersia

J.

On the inten-elation of genetic factors.

K. W. Cooper.

and consideration

1944.

Proc. Roy.

Analysis of meiotic pairing in

of the reciprocal chiasmata hypothesis of sex

chromosome conjunction in male Drosophila.

Genetics 29:537-568.

H. B. Creighton and B. McClintock. 1931. A correlation of cytological
and genetical crossing over in Zea mays. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 17:492-497.
H. B. Creighton and B. McClintock. 1932. Cytological evidence
Proc. VI Internat. Cong. Genet.
for 4-strand crossing over in Zea mays.
2:392.
E. M. Hearne and C. L. HusKiNS. 1935. Chromosome pairF. A. Jansing in Melanoplus femur-ntbrinn. Cytologia. 6:123-127.
sens. 1909. Spermatogenese dans les batraciens V. La theorie de la chiasmotypie. La Cellule 25:387-411.
C. C. Lindegren and G. Lindegren.
1937.

Non-random

crossing over in Neurospora.

J.

Hered. 28:105-113.

K. Mather. 1933. The relation between chiasma and crossing over
in diploid and triploid Drosophila melanogaster.
J. Genet. 27:243-259.
T. H. Morgan. 1911. Random segregation versus coupling in MenK. Sax. 1932. The cytological
delian inheritance. Science 34:384.
mechanism of crossing over. J. Arnold Arbor. 13:180-213.
C. Stern.
1931.
Zytologische-genetische Untersuchungen als Beweise fiir die Morgansche Theorie des Faktorenaustauchs.

Biol. Zentralbl. 51:547-587.

Somatic crossing over and segregation in Drosophila
melanogaster. Genetics 21:625-730.
A. H. Sturtevant. 1925. The
effects of unequal crossing over in the Bar locus in Drosophila. Genetics
W. S. Sutton. 1903. On the morphology of the chromo10 117-147.
some group in Brachystola magna. Biol. Bidl. 4 :24-39.

C. Stern.

1936.

:

CHAPTER 14
W, T. Astbury and F. O. Bell. 1938. X-raj' study of thymonucleic acid.
Nature 141:747.
C. D. Darlington and L. La Cour. 1940. Nucleic
acid starvation of chromosomes in Trillium. /. Genet. 40:185-212.
C. D. Darlington and L. La Cour. 1941. The detection of inert genes.
J. Hered. 32:115-121,
M. Demerec. 1939. Chromosome structure as
viewed by a geneticist. Amer. Natur. 73:331-338.
Th. DobzhanSKY. 1944. Distribution of heterochromatin in the chromosomes of DroDol^treligne.
sophila pallidipennis.
Amer. Natur. 78:193-213.
J.
1933.
Chromosomes et nucleoles dans les noyaux du type euchromocentrique.
La Cellule 42:31-100.
1937.
A. Prokofteva-Belgovskaya.
Observ'ations on the structure of chromosomes in the salivarj^ glands of

Specific Rejerences

554
melanogaster.

Drosophila

ScHULTZ.

1936.

Bull.

Acad.

Sci.

(U.S.S.R.)

393-426.

J.

Variegation in Drosophila and the inert chromosome re-

G. H. Shull. 1928. The
Oneothera flower, a new morphological type produced by the
interaction of two recessive Mendelian factors. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 14:
142-146.
E. Sutton. 1940. The structure of salivary gland chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster in exchanges between euchromatin and
gions.

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 22:27-33.

'^outside-in"

heterochromatin.

Genetics 25:534-540.

CHAPTER 15
Mass mutation in Oenothera pratincola. Bot.
1919. The developmental stages at
which mutations occur in the germ tract. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol, and Med.
H. H. Bartlett.

1915.

C. B. Bridges.

Gfl^. 60:425-456.

17:1-2.
M. Demerec. 1931. Behaviour of two mutable genes of DeZM. Demerec. 1936. Unstable
phinium ajacis. J. Genet. 24:179-193.
1:233-248.
M.
Demerec.
1937. Frequency of sponBot.
Rev.
genes.
taneous mutations in certain stocks of Drosophila melanogaster. Genetics
22:469-478.
M. Demerec. 1938. Eighteen years of research on the
M. Demerec. 1941.
gene. Carnegie Inst. Wash. Publ. 501:295-314.
Unstable genes in Drosophila. Cold Spring Harbor Symposia on Quant.
R. A. Emerson. 1914. The inheritance of a recurBiol. 9:145-149.
in
variegated ears of maize. Amer. Natur. 48:87-115.
somatic
variation
ring
D. F. Jones. 1936. Mutation rate in somatic cells of maize. Proc.
B. P. Kaufmann and M. Demerec. 1937.
Nat. Acad. Sci. 22:645-648.
Frequency of induced breaks in chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster.

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 23 A84r-488.

1.

Manton.

1935.

Some new evi-

dence on the physical nature of plant nuclei from intra-specific polyploids.
Proc. Roy. Soc. B 118:522-547.

T. H. Morgan and S. C. Tice. 1914.
The influence of the environment on the size of expected classes. Biol. Bull.
26:213-220.
M. M. Rhoades. 1938. Effect of the Dt gene on the

mutability of the ai allele in maize.

Genetics 23:377-395.

Shamel, L. B. Scott, and S. C. Pomeroy.

1918.

A. D.

A study of bud variation

in the navel orange.
IJ.S.D.A. Bull. 623:1-146.
G. H. Shull. 1921.
Three new mutations in Oenothera Lamarckiana. J. Hered. 12:354-363.
W. P. Spencer. 1935. Visible mutations in Drosophila. Amer.
Natur. 69:223-238.
N. W. Timofeeff-Ressovsky. 1934. Uber die

Genmutationen und ihrer Kombinationen bei Drosophila
funebris und ihre Abhangigkeit von ''genotypischen" und von aiisseren
Milieu. Zeits. f. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 66:319-344.
H.
P. Traub and T. R. Robinson.
1937.
Improvement of subtropical fruit
crops: citrus. U.S.D.A. Yearbook Agric. 1937:749-826.

Vitalitat einiger

CHAPTER 16
E. Altenburg.
Science 78 :587.

1933.

The production of mutations by ultra-violet light.

W. H. Brittingham.

1931.

Variations in the evening

555

Specific References

Science 74:463-464.
M. Demerec.
primrose induced by radium.
1938. Hereditary effects of X-ray radiation. Radiology 30:212-220.M. Demerec, A. Hollaexder, M. B. Houlahan, and M. Bishop. 1942.
Effect of monochromatic ultra-violet radiation on Drosophila melanogaster.

A. C. Faberge and G. H. Beale. 1942. An unmutation rate at different temperatures. J Genet.
43:173-187.
U. Fano and M. Demerec. 1941. Measurements of the
frequency of dominant lethals induced in sperm of Drosophila melanogaster
C. G. Gager and A. F. Blakeslee. 1927.
by X-rays. Genetics 26:151.
Chromosomes and gene mutations in Datura following exposure to radium
A. Gustafsson. 1938. Studies
rays. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 13:75-79.
on the genetic basis of chlorophyll formation and the mechanism of induced
A. Gustafsson. 1941. Mutation excredit as 24: :33-93.
mutating.
27:225-242.
A. Gustafsson and E.
periments in barley. Hereditas
Aberg. 1940. Two extreme X-ray mutations of morphological interest.
H. J. Muller. 1927. Artificial transmutation
Hereditas 26:257-261.
of the gene. Science 66:84-87.
H. J. Muller. 1927. Quantitative
methods in genetic research. Amer. Natur. 61 :407-419.
H. J. Muller.
1930. Radiation and genetics, ^mer. A^a^ur. 64:220-251.
J.T.Patterson. 1931. Continuous versus interrupted irradiation and the rate of
mutation in Drosophila. Biol. Bull. 51 133-138.
H. H. Plough. 1939.
Temperature in evolution as shown by studies on Drosophila. The Collect1936. Radiation and the study of muing Net 14:1-6.
J. Schultz.
tation in animals. Chapter XXXIX in Biological effects of radiation, Vol.
Gerieifcs 27:139-140.

stable gene in Portulaca

:

.

H

:

New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.

II.

L. J. Stadler.

tions in barley induced by X-rays and radium.

1928.

Muta-

Science 68:186-187.

Induced mutations in plants. Chapter XV in Biological effects of radiation, Vol. II. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.
M. F. Stancati. 1932. Production of dominant lethal genetic effects by
X-radiation of sperm in Habrobracon. Science 76:197-198.
N. W.
Timofeeff-Ressovsky. 1934. The experimental production of mutation.
Biol. Rev. 9:411-457.
A. R. Whiting. 1945. Effects of X-rays on
hatchability and on chromosomes of Habrobracon eggs treated in first
meiotic prophase and metaphase. Amer. Natur. 79:193-227.
A. R.
Whiting, 1946. Motherless males from irradiated eggs. Science 103:219220.
P. W. Whiting. 1935. Recent X-ray mutations in Habrobracon.
L. J. Stabler.

1936.

Proc. Pa. Acad. Sci. 9:60-63.

P.

W. Whiting.

1938.

The induction

dominant and recessive lethals by radiation in Habrobracon.

of

Genetics

23 562-572.
:

CHAPTER 17
E. B. Babcock and J. L. Collins.
control rate of mutation?

Bridges.

1936.

1929.

Does natural ionizing radiation

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 15:623-628.

The Bar "gene" a duplication.

T. Caspersson and

J.

Schultz.

1938.

C. B.

Science 83:210-211.

Nucleic acid metabolism of the

chromosomes in relation to gene reproduction. Nature 142:294-295.
G. P. Child. 1942. Temperature and the differentiation of characters in

Specific References

556

Biol. Symposia 6:37-49.

Drosophila.

M. Demerec and M. E. Hoover.

—a duplication in Drosophila melanogaster Genetics 24:

Hairy wing

1939.

.

Th. Dobzhansky. 1936.
N. P. Dubinin.
Rev. 11:364-384.

271-277.

Position effects on genes.

Biol.

A new type of position

1936.

Zhurnal 5:851-874.
N. P. Dubinin and B. N. Siderov.
1934. Relation between the effect of a gene and its position in the system.
Amer. Natur. 67:377-381.
R. Goldschmidt.
1937.
Spontaneous
chromatin rearrangements and the theory of the gene. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.
23:621-623.
F. B. Hanson and F. Heys.
1930.
A possible relation
between natural (earth) radiations and gene mutations. Science 71 :43-44.
H. J. MuLLER, 1928. The measurement of the gene mutation rate
in Drosophila, etc.
Genetics 13:279-357.
H. J. Muller and L. M.
Mott-Smith. 1930. Evidence that natural radioactivity is inadequate to
explain the frequency of natural mutations. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 16:277285.
H. H. Plough. 1941. Spontaneous mutability in Drosophila.
Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quant. Biol. 9:127-136.
H. H.
Plough. 1942. Temperature and evolution. Temperature and spontaneous mutation. Biol. Symposium 6:3-20.
H. H. Plough and P. T.
Ives.
1935.
Induction of mutation by high temperature in Drosophila.
Genetics 20:42-69.
M. M. Rhoades. 1941. The genetic control of
mutability in maize. Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quant. Biol. 9:
Biol.

effect.

138-144.

CHAPTER 18
Atwood.

S. S.

folium repens.
DORF.

Oppositional alleles in natural populations of TriGenetics 29:428-435.
F. Brieger and A. J. Mangels1944.

Linkage between morphological characters and factors for self-

1927.

Hort. Soc. Neiv York

sterility.

Memoir 3:369-371.

W. E. Castle.

The early embryology of Ciona intestinalis Flemming (L.).
Museum Comp. Zool. Harvard Univ. 27:201-280.
E. M. East.
1896.

Self-sterility.

Genet. 5:331-370.

Bibliogr.

E.

distribution of self -sterility in the flowering plants.

M. East.
1925.

pretation of the hereditary behavior of self-sterile plants.
<Sa. 11:166-171.

sterility

and

S.

E.

M. East and J. B. Park.

Pollen-tube growth.

11.

H. Yarnell.

allelomorphs.

1929.

1940.

The

Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc.

E. M. East and A. J. Mangelsdorf.

82:449-518.

Bidl.

1918.

Genetics 3:353-366.

A new inter-

Proc. Nat. Acad.

Studies on selfE.

M. East

Studies on self-sterility VIII. Self-sterility
Genetics 14:455-487.
S. Emerson.
1939.
A prelimi1929.

nary survey of the Oenothera organensis population. Genetics 24:524-537.
H. DE Haan. 1932. The symbolizing of hereditary factors. Genetica
15:1-21.
C. E. Keeler and V. Cobb. 1933. Allelomorphism of silver
and Siamese coat variations in the domestic cat. J. Hered. 24:181-184.
J. G. Koelreuter.
1761-1766. Vorldufige Nachricht von einigen des
Geschlecht der Pflanzen betreffenden Versuchen und Beobachtung, nebst
Fortsetzungen. Ostwald's Klassiker, Nr. 41. Leipzig: Engelmann.

D, Lewis.

1943,

The physiology of incompatibility in plants.

II.

Linum

Ann. Bot. 7:115-122.
H. Prell. 1921. Das Problem
der Unbefruchtbarkeit.
Naturw. Wschr. 20:440-446.
H. P. Riley.
grandiflorum.

557

Specific References
1932.

Self-sterility in shepherd's purse.

Genetics 17:231-295.

A. B.

The genetics of incompatibilities in homomorphic flowering

Stout.

1938.

plants.

Bot. Rev. 4:275-369.

A. B. Stout.

1945.

Classes and types

Amer. Natur. 79:481-508.

R. D.
Williams. 1941. Incompatibility alleles in Trijolium jn-atense L.; their
frequency and linkage relationships, Proc. VII Internal. Cong. Genetics:

of intraspecific

incompatibilities.

316.

CHAPTER 19
W. C. Boyd et al. 1946. Blood grouping. Ann. New York Acad. Sci. 46:
W. E. Castle and C. E. Keeler. 1933. Blood group in-

883-992.

heritance in

the

rabbit.

Proc. Nat. Acad.

Sci.

19:92-100.

R. A.

The rhesus factor.

Amer. Scientist 35:95.
W. GamMELGAARD and P. V. Marcussen. 1940. Nachweis eines vierten allelomorphen ^-Gene (^4). Z. Immunitdtsforsch. 98:411-419.
K. Landsteiner and A. S. Wiener. 1940. An agglutinable factor in human blood
recognized by immune sera for rhesus blood. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.
43:223.
K. Landsteiner and A. S. Wiener. 1941. Studies on an
agglutinogen (Rh) in human blood reacting with anti-rhesus sera and with

Fisher.

1947.

human isoantibodies. J. Exp. Med. 74:309-320.
P. Levine, L. Burnham, E. M. Katzin, and P. Vogel. 1941. The role of isoimmunization in
the pathogenesis of erythroblastosis fetalis.
P. Levine, E.

42:925.

Amer. J. Obstet. and Gynec.

M. Katzin, and L. Burnham.

1941.
Isoimmunization in pregnancy. /. Amer. Med. Assoc. 116:825-827.
P. Levine and R. E. Stetson. 1939. An unusual case of intragroup agglutination.
J. Amer. Med. Assoc. 113:126-127.
R. R. Race and G. L. Taylor. 1943.
A serum that discloses the genotype of some Rh-Tpositive people. Nature 152
300.
R. R. Race, G. L. Taylor, E. W. Ikin, and A. M. Prior. 1944.
The inheritance of allelomorphs of the Rh gene in fifty-six families. Ann.
L. H. Snyder, M. D. Schonfeld, and E. M. OfferEug. 12:206-210.

man.

1945.

The Rh factor and feeblemindedness.

heritance, XXVI.

Studies in human in-

Hered. 36:9-10.
C. Stern and D. R. Charles.
1945.
The rhesus gene and the effect of consanguinity. Science 101 :305307.
H. H. Strandskov. 1941. The distribution of human genes.
Sci. Monthly 52:203-215.
0. Thomsen. 1932. Uber die Ai- und A2Receptoren in der sogenannten A-Gruppe. Acta. Soc. med. fenn. duodecim,
A15:l-17.
1943.
Genetic theory of the Rh blood
A. S. Wiener.
A. S. Wiener. 1944.
types. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 54:316-319.
J.

The Rh series of allelic genes.
1946.

A. S. Wiener.
Science 100:595-597.
Recent advances in knowledge of the Rh blood factors, with special

The Lab. Digest, June, 1946:1-12.
Wiener,
Davidsohn,
and
E.
L. Potter. 1945. Heredity of the Rh
A. S.
I.
A. S. Wiener and H. E.
blood types II. J. Exp. Med. 81:63-72.
Karoave. 1944. Diagrammatic representations of the human blood-group
reactions. J. Immunol. 49:5-61.
A. S. Wiener, E. B. Sonn, and R. B.
Belkin. 1944. Heredity of the Rh blood types. J. ^a:jE>. Merf. 79:235-253.
A. S. Wiener, E. B. Sonn, and H. R. Polivka. 1946. Heredity of
the Rh blood types, V. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 61 :382-390.
reference to clinical applications.

Specific References

558

CHAPTER 20
Atwood and J. T. Sullivan. 1943. Inheritance of a cj'-anogenetic
enzyme in Trijolium re/pens. J. Hered. 34:
311-320.
Beadle.
1945.
Biochemical genetics. Chem. Rev,
W.
G.
37:15-96.
G. W. Be.\dle and B. Ephrussl 1936. The differentiation
of eye pigments in Drosophila as studied by transplantation. Genetics 21
225-247.
G. W. Beadle and E. L. Tatum. 1941. Genetic control of
S. S.

glucoside and its hydrolyzing

developmental reactions. Amer. Natur. 75:107-116.
C. W. Clancy.
1942. The development of eye color in Drgsophila melanogaster. Further
E. G. Conklin.
studies on the mutant claret. Genetics 27:417-440.
13:1-226.
E. G.
The embryology of Crepidula. J. Morph.
1897.
Conklin, 1938. Disorientations of development in Crepidula plana proM.
duced by low temperatures. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. 79:179-211.
Demerec. 1935. Behavior of chlorophyll in inheritance. Cold Spring HarC. Diver, A. E. Boycott,
bor Symposium on Quant. Biol. 3:80-86.
1925.
inheritance
of
inverse
Garstang.
The
symmetry in Limnaea
and S.
B. 0. Dodge. 1942. A study of the inperegra. J. Genet. 15 113-200.
heritance of the factors for heterocaryotic vigor in Neurospora tetrasperma.
A. Frey-Wyssling and
Amer. Philos. Soc. Year Book, 1942:148-150.
F. Blank. 1943. Untersuchungen iiber die Physiologie des Anthocyans in
Keimlingen von Brassica oleracea L, var. capitata L. f. rubra (L.). Ber.
A. J. Kavanagh and O. W. RichSchweiz. Bot. Gesell. 53A:550-578.
Mathematical analysis of the relative growth of organisms.
ards.
1942.
Proc. Rochester (N. Y.) Acad. Sci. 8:150-174.
W. J. C. Lawrence and
1940. The genetics and chemistry'- of flower colour variation.
J. R. Price.
Biol. Rev. 15:35-58.
W. J. C. Lawrence and R. Scott-Moncrieff.
1935. The genetics and chemistry of flower color in dahlia; a new theory
of specific pigmentation. J. Genet. 30:155-226.
W. J. C. Lawrence,
R. Scott-Moncrieff, and V. C. Sturgess. 1939. Studies on Streptocarpus I.
J. Genetics 38:299-306.
H. Onslow. 1915. A contribution to our
knowledge of the chemistiy of coat-colour in animals and of dominant and
recessive whiteness.
Proc. Roy. Soc. B 89:36-58.
J. van Overbeek.
1935. The growth hormone and the dwarf type of growth in corn. Proc.
Nat. Acad. Sci. 21:292-299.
J. van Overbeek.
1938.
"Laziness" in
maize due to abnormal distribution of growth hormone. /. Hered. 29:339341.
E. W. SiNNOTT. 1936. A developmental anah'sis of inherited
:

shape differences in cucurbit fruits.

SiNNOTT.

1937.

Amer. Natur. 70:245-254.

E. W.

The genetic control of developmental relationships. Amer.

E. W. Sinnott. 1944. Cell polarity and the development of form in cucurbit fruit. Amer. J. Bot. 31 :388-391.
A. H.
Sturtevant. 1923. Inheritance of direction of coiling in Limnaea. Science
58:269-270.
E. L. Tatum. 1939. Development of eye-colors in Drosophila: bacterial synthesis of v+ hormone. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 25:486490.
E. L. Tatum and G. W. Be.\dle. 1942. The relation of genetics
to growth-factors and hormones. Fourth Growth Symposium: 27-35.
E. L. T.-^tum and D, M. Bonner. 1943. Synthesis of tryptophane from in-

Natur. 71:113-119.

559

Specific References
dole

and

serine

by Neurospora.

Whaley and C. Y. Whaley.

/.

1942.

Biol.

Chem.

W.

151:349.

Amer. J. Bot. 29:195-200.

R. D. Wil-

leaf patterns in

Tropaeolum.

liams.

Genetics of chlorophyll deficiencies in red clover.

1939.

Genet. 37:459-482.

S.

Wright.

G.

A developmental analysis of inherited

1916.

II.

/.

An intensive study of the in-

heritance of color and of other coat characters in guinea-pigs.

Carnegie

1945. Genes as physiologiS. Wright.
Wash. Publ. 241 :57-160.
S.Wright. 1945. Physiological agents. Amer. Natiir. 79:289-303.
cal aspects of genetics. Amer. Rev. Physiol. 7:75-106.

Inst.

CHAPTER 21
W. Bateson and R. C. Punnett. 1906. Comb characters. Rep. to Evol.
W. Bateson, E. R. S.\unders, and R. C.
(Lathyrus
odoratus).
Rep. to Evol. Com.
Sweet
pea
1905.
Punnett.
Com. Roy. Soc. 11:11-16.

E. B.aur. 1910. Vererbungs- und BastardierungsRoy. Soc. 11:80-99.
versuche mit Antin^hinum. Zeits. j. indukt. Ahstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 3:
34-98.
A. F. Blakeslee. 1921. A chemical method of distinguishing
genetic types of yellow cones in Rudbeckia. Zeits. f. indukt. Ahstamm.- u.
M. Demerec. 1929. Genetic factors stimuVererb-lehre 25:211-221.
lating mutability of miniature-gamma wing character of Drosophila virilis.
E. M. East. 1927. The inheritance
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 15:834-838.
Genetics 12:393-414.
R. A.
of heterostyly in Ly thrum salicaiia.
Fisher and K. M.ather. 1940. Non-lethality of the mid factor in Lythrum
salicaiia.
Nature 146:421.
R. P. Gregory, D. deWinton, and W.
Bateson. 1923. Genetics of Primula sinensis. J. Genet. 13:219-253.
P. R. Hadley. 1913. Studies of inheritance in poultry. I. The constitution
of the White Leghorn breed. Rhode Island Agric. Exp. Sta. Bull. 155:151-

Knowles. 1943. A second factor for awn barbing in
K. Miyake and Y.
Can. J. Res., Ser. C 21: 198-204.
Im.ai.
Genetic studies in barley I. Bot. Mag. (Tokyo) 36:25-38.
1922.
H. Nilsson-Ehle. 1908. Einige
(Japanese with English summary.)
Ergebnisse von Kreuzungen bei Hafer und Weizen. Botaniska Notiser.

216.

P. F.

durum wheat.

G. H. Shull. 1908. A new Mendelian ratio and sevG. H. Shull. 1914.
Amer. Natur. 42:432-451.
Duplicate genes for capsule form in Bursa bursa-pastoris. Zeits. f. indukt.
G. H. Shull. 1926. "OldAbstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 12:97-149.
gold" flower color, the second case of independent inheritance in Oenothera.
1908:257-294.

eral types of latency.

Generics 11:201-234.

E. W. Sinnott and G. H. Durham.

heritance in the summer squash.

/.

1922.

In-

Hered. 13:177-186.

CHAPTER 22
W. E. Castle.

1919.

Piebald rats and the theory of genes. Proc. Nat.
W. E. Castle. 1941. Size inheritance. Amer.
W. E. Castle. 1942. Size genes in mice. Proc.

Acad. Sci. 5:126-130.
Natur. 75:488-498.
W. E. Castle and P. W. Gregory. 1929.
Nat. Acad. Sci. 28:69-72.
The embryological basis of size inheritance in the rabbit. J. Morph. and

Specific References

560

D. R. Charles and H. H. Smith. 1939. Distinguishing between two types of gene action in quantitative inheritance.
E. M. East. 1910. A Mendelian interpretation
Genetics 24:34-48.
of variation that is apparently continuous. Amer. Natur. 44:65-82.
E. M. East. 1916. Inheritance in crosses between Nicotiana Langsdorffii
E. M. East and H. K.
and Nicotiana alata. Genetics 1:311-333.
Agric.
Exp.
Sta. Bull. 1Q7 -.1-1^2.
Conn.
maize.
in
H.\yES. 1911. Inheritance
on variation
Studies
1914.
A. L. H.'iGEDOORN and A. C. Hagedoorn.
Physiol. 4S .81-102.

and

Zeits.

selection.

F. A. Hays.

f.

Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 11:145-183.
The significance- of inherited characters affecting

indukt.

1944.

Fortge1911.
A. Lang.
egg production. Poultry Sci. 23:310-313.
und
die
HyMulatten
Hautfarbe
der
Die
II.
Vererbungsstudien.
setzte
5:111Vererb-lehre
Abstamm.u,
indukt.
pothese der Polymerie. Zeits. /.
K. Mather. 1943. Polygenic inheritance and natural selection.
127.

K. Sax. 1923. The association of size differand pigmentation in Phaseolus vidgaris.
G. H. Shull. 1921. Estimating the number of
Genetics 8:552-500.
genetic factors concerned in blending inheritance. Amer. Natur. 55:556-564.
H. H. Smith. 1937. The relation between genes affecting size and
S. Wright.
color in certain species of Nicotiana. Genetics 22 :361-375.
1932. General, group and special size factors. Genetics 17:603-619.
Biol, i^ef., 18:32-64.

ences with seed

coat pattern

CHAPTER 23
Studies in the inheritance of physiological characters.
W. H. Black. 1936. Beef and dual-purpose
Ann. Bot. 1:11-41.

E. AsHBY.
III.

1937.

J. T. BuchU.S.D.A. 1936 Yearbook Agric. : 863-886.
Embryological aspects of hybrid vigor in pines. Science 102:
1929.
C. B. D.avenport, H. R. Hunt, and G. H. Shull.

cattle breeding.

HOLZ.

1945.

135-142.

Th. Dobzhansky.
Should cousins marry? Eugenics 2:2-3.
18:397-398.
E. M. East.
Heterosis.
Revista de Agricultura

1943.
1909.

The transmission of variations in the potato in asexual reproduction. Conn.
E. M. E.\st. 1910. The role of
Exper. Sta. Rep. 1909-1910:119-160.
Pop. Sci. Monthly, August, 1910:190-203.
E. M. East
Genetics 21:375-397.
plant
breeding.
and
in
evolution
in
K.
Hayes.
1912.
Heterozygosis
and H.
U. S.D. A. Bull. 2i3 -.1-58.
R. A. Emerson and E. M. E.\st. 1913. The
inheritance of quantitative characters in maize. Neb. Agric. Exp. Sta. Res.

selection in plant breeding.

E.

M. East.

Heterosis.

1936.

J. R. Fryer.

Bull. 2 1-120.

1939.

The maternal-line selection method

of breeding for increased seed-setting in

and vigour.
1939.

alfalfa.

Sci.

Agric. 20:131-139.

The effect of heterozygosity on variability
F. A. Hays and R. Sanborn.
Hereditas 32:263-286.-

A. Gustafsson.

1946.

Breeding for egg production.

Mass. Agric. Exp. Sta. Bidl. 307

(re-

1-36.
C. G. Hopkins, L. H. Smith, and E. M. East. 1905.
Directions for the breeding of corn, including methods for the prev'ention
D. F. Jones.
of inbreeding. III. Agric. Exp. Sta. Bull. 100:600-626.

vised)

1917.

:

Dominance of linked factors as a means of accounting for heterosis.
D. F. Jones. 1918. The effects of inbreeding

Genetics 2:466-479.

Specific References

561

and crossbreeding upon development. Conn. Agric. Exp. Sta. Bull. 207:1D. F. Jones. 1939. Continued inbreeding in maize. Genetics
100.
24:462-473.

M. A. Jull.

1936.

Superior breeding stock in poultry.

U.S.D.A. 1936 Yearbook Agric: 947-995.

G. Morrison. 1940. The
fundamentals of seed breeding. Nat. Seedsman, February, 1940.
G.
E. Morrow and F. D. G.ardner. 1894. Experiments with corn. ///. Agric.
F. Nilssox.
1934.
Exp. Sta. Bull. 31:333-360.
Studies in fertility
and inbreeding in some herbage grasses. Hereditas 19:1-162.
G. H.
Shull. 1908. The composition of a field of maize. Kept. Amer. Breeders'
Assoc. 4:296-301.
G. H. Shull. 1909. A pure line method of corn
breeding. Rept. Amer. Breeders' Assoc. 5:51-59.
G. H. Shull. 1910.
Hybridization methods in corn breeding. Amer. Breeders' Mag. 1 :98-107.
G. H. Shull. 1922. Ueber die Heterozygotie mit Riicksicht auf
den praktischen Ziichtungserfolg. Beitrdge zur Pflanzenzucht 5:1-24.
W, R. Singleton. 1941. Hybrid vigor and its utilization in sweet corn
breeding. Amer. Natur. 75:48-60.
D. G. Steele, 1944. A genetic
analysis of recent thoroughbreds, standardbreds. and American saddle horses.
Ky. Agric. Exp. Sta. Bidl. 462:1-27.
A. B. Stout. 1929. The clon in
W. G. Whaley. 1944.
plant life. J. N. Y. Bot. Gard. 30:25-37.
1922.
Heterosis. Bot. Rev. 10:461-498.
The effects of
S. Wright.
inbreeding and crossbreeding on guinea pigs. I. and II. L.S.D.A. Bull. 1090:
1-63.
1938. Breeding tomatoes
S. H. Yarnell and L. R. Hawthorn.
Proc. Amer. Soc. Hort. Sci. 1938:585-589.
to extend the fruiting season.

CHAPTER 24
A. D. Bergner. 1943. Chromosomal interchange among six species of
Datura in nature. Amer. J. Bot. 30:431-440.
A. F. Blakeslee. 1941.
Chromosomal interchanges, pp. 37-46 in Cytology, Genetics, and Evolution.

Philadelphia:

University of Pennsylvania

Press.

A. F. Blakeslee.

Annual Report of Director of the Department of Genetics. Carnegie
A. F. Blakeslee and R. E. CleWash. Year Book 40:211-225.
land. 1930. Circle formation in Datura and Oenothera. Proc. Nat. Acad.
Sci. 16:177-183.
R. A. Brink. 1927. The occurrence of semi-sterility
in maize. J. Hered. 18:266-269.
C. R. Burnham. 1930. Genetical
and cytological studies of semisterility and related phenomena in maize.
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 16:269-277.
H. B. Creighton. 1934. Three
cases of deficiency in chromosome 9 of Zea mays. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 20:
111-115.
Th. Dobzhansky and A. H. Sturtevant. 1938. Inversions in the chromosomes of Drosophila pseudoobscura. Genetics 23 :28-64.
A. C. F.ABERGE. 1940. An experiment on chromosome fragmentations
in Tradescantia by X-rays. J. Genet. 39:229-248.
A. E. Gairdner and
1930.
Structural variation in the chromosomes of
C. D. D.ARLINGTON.
Campanula persicifolia. Nature, January 18, 1930:1-4.
N. Giles.
1940. Spontaneous chromosome aberrations in Tradescantia. Genetics 25:
69-87.
L. HusTED. 1937. Chromosome breakage and knot formation
in Paris and Pancratium.
B. McClintock.
J. Genet. 34:329-338.
1941.

Inst.

1931.

Cytological observations of deficiencies involving known genes, trans-

Specific Rejerences

562

and an inversion in Zea mays. Univ. Mo. Res. Bull. 163 :3-30.
The production of homozygous deficient
1938.
B. McClintock.
tissue with mutant characteristics by means of the aberrant mitotic beGenetics 23:315-376.
B. Mchavior of ring-shaped chromosomes.
Clintock. 1938. The fusion of broken ends of sister half-chromatids follocations,

Univ. Mo. Res. Bull.
lowing chromatid breakage at meiotic anaphases.
B. McClintock. 1941, The association of mutants with
Genetics 26:542-571.
K.
homozygous deficiencies in Zea mays.

290:1-48.

Mather.

1934.

The behaviour of meiotic chromosomes after X-irradiation.
A. Muntzing. 1934. Chromosome fragmenta-

H ere ditas 19:303-322.

L. F. Randolph.
Hereditas 19:284-302.
a Crepis hybrid.
Genetic characteristics of the B chromosomes in maize. Genetics 26:
608-631.
C. M. Rick. 1940. On the nature of X-ray induced dele-

tion

in

1941.

tions in Tradescantia

chromosomes.

Genetics 25:466-482.

K. Sax.

Chromosome ring formation in Rhoeo discolor. Cytologia 3:36-53.
Chromosome aberrations induced by X-rays.
1938.
K. Sax.

1931.

L. J. Stabler. 1933. On the genetic nature of
induced mutations in plants II. A haplo-viable deficiency in maize. Univ.
E. Sutton. 1935. Half-deficiencies in an
Mo. Res. Bull. 204:3-29.
association of four chromosomes in Pisuni sativum. Ann. Bot. 49:689-698.

Genetics 23:494-516.

E, Sutton.

1940.

Terminal deficiencies in the

X chromosome of

C. R. Swanson.
The distribution of inversions in Tradescantia. Genetics 25:438-465.
T. W. Whitaker. 1936. Fragmentation in Tradescantia. Amer. J.
23:517-519.
M. J. D. White. 1937. The effect of X-rays on the
Bot.

Drosophila

melanogaster.

Genetics

25:628-635.

1940.

first

meiotic division in three species of Orthoptera.

Proc. Roy. Soc. (Lon-

don), Ser. B 124:183-196.

CHAPTER 25
Belling and A, F, Blakeslee. 1924. The configurations and sizes of
the chromosomes in the trivalents of 25-chromosome Daturas. Proc. Nat.
A. F. Blakeslee. 1921. The Globe, a simple
Acad. Sci. 10:116-120.
A. F.
trisomic mutant in Datura. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 7:148-152.
Blakeslee. 1924. Distinction between primary and secondary chromoA. F.
somal mutants in Datura. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 10:109-116.
Blakeslee. 1928. Genetics of Datura. Verh. V. Internal. Kong. Vererb.
1:117-130.
Fifteen-year
1938.
A. F. Blakeslee and A. G. Avery.
breeding records of 2n -\- 1 types in Datura stramonium. Cooperation in
Research, Carnegie Inst. Wash. Publ. 501:315-351.
A. F. Blakeslee
and M. E. Farnham. 1923. Trisomic inheritance in the Poinsettia mutant
J.

of Datura.

Amer. Natur. 57:481-495.

C. B. Bridges.

disjunction as proof of the chromosome theory of heredity.
52; 107-163.

C. B. Bridges.

of non-disjunction of the fourth

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 7:182-192.

1921.

1916.

Non-

Genetics 1:1-

Genetical and cytological proof

chromosome of Drosophila melanogaster.

D. G. Catcheside. 1936. Origin,
nature and breeding behavior of Oenothera Lamarckiana trisomies.
J.
Genet. 33:1-23.
D. G. Catcheside. 1937. The extra chromosome of

Specific References

Oenothera Lamarckiana

563
R. E. Clausen.

Genetics 22:564-576.

lata.

Monosomic analysis in Nicotiana Tabacum. Genetics 26:145.
A. D. Conger. 1940. Chromosome deficiencies in microspores of Trade1941.

scantia.

J.

Hered. 31:339-341.

C. E. Ford.

1936.

Non-disjunction

and the genesis of trisomies. J. Genet. 33:275-303.
W. E. Lammerts. 1932. Inheritance of monosomies in Nicotiana rustica.
W. J. C. Lawrence. 1931. The genetics and
Genetics 17:689-696.
c3^tology of Dahlia variabilis. J. Genet. 24:257-306.
B. McClintock.
1929.
A 2/1 — 1 chromosomal chimera in maize. J. Hered. 20:218.
H. P. Olmo. 1936. Cytological studies of monosomies and derivative types
of Nicotiana tabacum. Cytologia 7:143-159.
M. M. Rhoades. 1940.
Studies of a telocentric chromosome in maize with reference to the stability
in Oenothera

of its centromere.

Genetics 25:483-520.

CHAPTER 26
E.Anderson.

1937.

Cj'tology in its relation to taxonomy.

E. Anderson and K. Sax.

335-350.

1936.

Bot.Bev.3:

A cytological monograph

American species of Tradescantia. Bot. Gaz. 97:433-476.
F.
Baltzer. 1922. tJber die Herstellung und Aufzucht eines haploiden Triton
taeniatus.
Verh. Schweiz. Natf. Ges. (Bern): 248-249.
R. Bamford
and F. B. Winkler. 1941. A spontaneous tetraploid snapdragon. J. Hered.
32:217-218.
J. M. Bellows, Jr., and R. Bamford.
1941. Megagametophyte development in a triploid tulip. Bot. Gaz. 102:699-711.
A. D. Bergner. 1944. Chromosome associations in tetraploid hj'brids between Prime Type 1 and Prime Type 2 in Datura stramonium. Proc. Nat.
Acad. Set. 30:302-308.
J. E. Birdsall and K. W. Neatby.
1944. Researches on drought resistance in spring wheat. III. Canad. J. Res. 22:3851.
A. F. Blakeslee, J. Belling, M. E. Farnham, and A. D. Bergner.
1922. A haploid mutant in the Jimson weed. Datura stramonium. Science
55:646-647.
A. F. Blakeslee and H. E. Warmke. 1938. Size of seed
and other criteria of po^'ploids. Science 88:440.
R. A. Brink and
D. C. Cooper. 1944. The antipodals in relation to abnormal endosperm
behavior in Hordeum jubatum X Secale cereale hybrid seeds. Genetics 29:
391-406.
M. S. Brown. 1943. Haploid plants in sorghum. J. Hered.
34:162-166.
H. M. Christensen and R. Bamford. 1943. Haploids
in twin seedlings of pepper. J. Hered. 34:98-104.
D. C. Cooper and
R. A. Brink. 1944. Collapse of the seed following the mating of Hordeum
jubatum yc, Secale cereale. Genetics 29:370-390.
C. D. Darlington.
1929. Chromosome behavior and structural hj^bridity in the Tradescantiae.
J. Genet. 21 -.207-28Q.
C. D. R. Dawson. 1941. Tetrasomic inheritance in Lotu^ corniculatus L. J. Genet. 42:49-73.
G. Fankhausee.
1938. The microscopical anatomy of metamorphosis in a haploid salamander, Triton taeniatus Laur. /. Morph. 62:393-413.
G. Fankhauser.
1941. Cell size, organ and body size in triploid newts {Triturus viridescens)
J. Morph. 68 161-177.
H. Kihara and Y. Katayama. 1933. Reifungsteilungen bei dem haploiden Tnticum monococcum. Agiic. and Hort.
(Japan) 8:1-17. German summary.
E. King. 1933. Chromosome
of the

:

Specific References

564

W. E.
behavior in a triploid Tradescantia. /. Hered. 24:252-256.
Lammerts, 1934. On the nature of chromosome association in N. tahacum
A. Levan, 1941. Syncyte formation
Cytologia 6:38-50.
haploids.
in the pollen mother-cells of haploid Phleum pratense. Hereditas 27:243W. LiNDSTROM and L. M. Humphrey.

1933.
Comparative
different
origins.
tomatoes
from
Genetics
cyto-genetic studies of tetraploid
The problem of Biscutella laevigata
1934.
1. Manton.
18:193-209.
A. MiixTL. Zeits. /. indukt. Abstamm- u. Vererb-lehre 67:41-57.
ziNG. 1936. The chromosomes of a giant Populus tremula. Hereditas 21

E.

252.

A. Muntzing. 1937. The effects of chromosomal variation
23:113-235.
A. Muntzing. 1938. Note on
Hereditas
in Dactylis.
heteroploid twin plants from eleven genera. Hereditas 24:487-491.
W. M. Myers. 1944. The randomness of chromosome distribution at anaphase I in autotriploid Lolium perenne L. Bidl. Torr. Bot. Club 71:144383-393.

151.

10 :583-592.

M. Navashin. 1925. Polyploid mutations in Crepis. Genetics
M. M. Richardson. 1935. Setcreasia brevifolia, a further

example of polyploidy and structural hybridity in the Tradescantiae. Bot.
1937S. Satina, A. F. Blakeslee, and A. G. Avery.
Gaz. 97 :399-407.
Chromosome behavior in triploid Datura. I, II, and III. Amer. J
1938.
H. J. Sax. 1938. The reBot. 24:518-527; 621-627 and 25:595-602.
lation between stomata counts and chromosome number. J Arnold ArboreK. Sax. 1937. Chromosome behavior and nuclear
tum 19:437-441.
K. Sax and J. M.
development in Tradescantia. Genetics 22 :523-533.
Beal. 1934. Chromosomes of the Cycadales. J. Arnold Arboretum 15:
255-258.
K. Sax and H. J. Sax. 1933. Chromosome number and
.

morphology in the conifers.

J.

Arnold Arboretum 14:356-375.

E. R.

Cytogenetic studies with polyploid species of wheat. I.
:509-523.
24
H. H. Smith. 1943. Studies on induced heteroGenetics

Sears.

1939.

ploids of Nicotiana.

Amer. J. Bot. 30:121-130.

W. P. Thompson and

D. Johnston. 1945. The cause of incompatibility between barley and rye.
Cytological
1940.
J. J. Westfall.
Canad. J. Res., Sec. C 23: 1-15.
M. W. Woods.
Bot. Gaz. 101:550-581.
studies of Lilium tigrinum.
1937. Meiotic studies in triploid Tulipa with special reference to bridging
and fragmentation. Bot. Gaz. 99:103-115.

CHAPTER 27
1940.
The origin of American tetraploid Gossypium
Meiotic
1942.
Amer. Natur. 74:285-286.
J. 0. Beasley.
chromosome behavior in species, species hybrids, haploids, and induced
K. B. Blackburn.
polyploids of Gossypium.
Genetics 27:25-54.
1925.
Chromosomes and classification in the genus Rosa. Amer. Natur.
59:200-205.
B. H. Buxton and C. D. Darlington. 1931. Behaviour
D. G.
of a new species, Digitalis mertonensiss
Nature 127:94.
J.

0. Beasley.

species.

Cytologia.
Secondaiy pairing in Brassica oleracca.
1933. Cytological evidence
J. Clausen.
for the hybrid origin of Penstemon neotericus Keck. Hereditas 18:65-76.
R. E. Clausen. 1941. Polyploidy in Nicotiana. Amer. Natur. 75:291-306.

Catcheside.

1937.

Fujii Jubilee Vol.: 366-378.

Specific References

W. H. Greenleaf.

1941.

Sterile and fertile amphidiploids.

L. Hollingshead.

26:301-324.

565
Genetics

Cytological investigations of

1930.

hybrids and hybrid derivatives of Crepis capillans and Crepis tectorum.
Univ. Calif. Pub. in Agric. 6:55-94.

polyploidy in the genus Rosa L.
C. L.

906.

HusKiNS.

Genetica 12:531-538.
of Raphanus sativus L.

C. C. Hurst.

1928.

Differential

V. Internat. Kong. Vererbungswiss. 2:866-

The origin
G. D. Karpechenko.
1930.

X Brassica oleracea L.

of

Townsendii.

Spartina

Polyploid hybrids

1928.

Zeits. f. indukt. Abstamm.-

W. J. C. Lawrence. 1931. The secondary
chromosomes.
Cytologia 2:352-384.
A. Miintzing.
1938. Sterility and chromosome pairing in intraspecific Galeopsis hybrids.
Hereditas 24:117-188.
A. Muntzing. 1939. Studies on the properties
and the ways of production of rye-wheat amphidiploids. Hereditas 25:387430.
A. MuNTZiNG and R. Prakken. 1940. The mode of chromosome pairing in Phleum twins with 63 chromosomes and its cytogenetic
W. C. F. Newton and C. Pelconsequences. Hereditas 26:463-501.
lew. 1929. Primida kewensis and its derivatives. J. Genet. 20:405-467.
K. Sax. 1935. The cytological analysis of species hybrids. Bot.
1:100-117.
E. R. Sears. 1941. Chromosome pairing and ferRev.
tility in hybrids and amphidiploids in the Triticinae.
Mo. Agric. Exp. Sta.
u.

Vererb-Iehre 48:1-85.

association

of

Res. Bull. 337:3-20.
ton. IV.

A. Skovsted.

1937.

Cytological studies in cot-

Chromosome configurations in interspecific hybrids.

J. Genet.
G. L. Stebbins, H. A. Tobgy, and J. R. Harlan. 1944.
The cytogenetics of hybrids in Bromus. II. Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 4th Ser.
25:307-322.
1931. A study of certain polyploid and
S. H. Yarnell.
aneuploid forms in Fragaria. Genetics 16:455-489.

34:97-134.

CHAPTER 28
Experimental studies on the cytology of Allium.
A. F. Blakeslee and A. G. Avery. 1937. Methods
of inducing doubling of chromosomes in plants.
J. Hered. 28:392-411.
A. F. Blakeslee, A. D. Bergner, S. Satina, and E. W. Sinnott.
1939. Induction of periclinal chimaeras in Datura stramonium by colchicine
treatment.
Science 89:402,
1940.
H. Dermen.
Colchicine polyC. A. Berger.
Torreya 44:41.

1944.

ploidy and technique. Bo^. i^ei;. 6:599-635.
H. Dermen. 1945. The
mechanism of colchicine-induced cytohistological changes in cranberry.
Amer. J. Bot. 32:397-394.
0. J. Eigsti. 1938. A cytological study of
Proc. Nat. Acad.
G. Fankhauser and R. C. Watson.
1942.
Heatinduced triploidy in the newt, Triturus viridescens. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.
28:436-440.
W. H. Greenleaf. 1938. Induction of polyploidy in
Xicotiana. /. Hered. 29:450-464.
R. B. Griffiths. 1941. Triploidy
(and haploidy) in the newt, Triturus viridescens, induced by refrigeration
colchicine effects in the induction of polyploidy in plants.

Sci.

24:56-63.

of fertilized eggs.

Generics 26:69-88.

of colchicine injections.

Science 92:80.

E. Higbee.

1940.

C. A. Jorgensen.

Some results
1928. The

experimental formation of heteroploid plants in the genus Solanum. J.
Genet. 19:133-211.
A. Levan. 1940. The effect of acenaphthene and

Specific References

566

colchicine on mitosis of Allium and Colchicum.

M. Levine.

Torrey Bot. Club 73:34-59.
Cyto-genetic investigations
1931.

tion with X-rays on plant tissue. II.

E.

Hereditas 26:262-276.

The effect of colchicine and acenaphthene in combina-

1946.

Bull.

W. LiNDSTROM and K. Koos.

of a haploid tomato and its diploid and tetraploid progeny.

T. M. Little.

18:398-410.

Amer. J. Bot.

Tetraploidy in Antirrhinum majus

1942.

B. R.
induced by sanguinarine hydrochloride. Science 96:188-189.
Nebel. 1937. Cytological observations of colchicine. Biol. Bull. 73:351B. R. Nebel and M. L. Ruttle. 1938. Colchicine and its place
352.
J. G.
N. Y. State Agric. Exp. Sta. Circ. 183.
in fruit breeding.

O'Mara. 1939. Observations on the immediate effects of colchicine. J.
G. Pixcus and C. H. Waddington. 1939. The efHered. 30:35-37.
fects of mitosis-inhibiting treatment on normally fertilized pre-cleavage
J. Hered.

rabbit eggs.

H. P. Riley.

30:515-518.

1939.

Introgressive

Genetics 24:753hj'bridization in a natural population of Tradescantia.
Periclinal
1943, 1944, 1945.
769.
S. Satina and A. F. Blakeslee.

Amcr. J. Bot. 30 :453-462 31 :493-502 32 :72-81.
K. Sax. 1936. The experimental production of polyploidy. J. Arnold
K. Sax. 1937. Effect of variations in temArboretum 17:153-159.
Amer. .J. Bot. 24:
in Tradescantia.
and
cell
division
nuclear
on
perature
polyploidy
in Nico218-225.
H.H.Smith. 1939. The induction of
H. E.
J. Hered. 30:290-306.
tiana species and species hybrids.
Warmke and A. F. JBlakeslee. 1939. Induction of simple and multiple
chimeras in Datura.

;

;

polyploidy in Nicotiana by colchicine treatment.
S. J.

Wellensiek.

/.

Hered. 30:418-432.

The newest fad, colchicine, and its origin.

1939.

Chron. Bot. 5:15-17.

CHAPTER 29
C. E. Allen.

sperms.

1940.

The genotype

Bot. Rev. 6:227-300.

S.

basis

of sex-expression

A. Asdell.

1944.

in

Angio-

The genetic sex

of intersexual goats and a probable linkage with the gene for hornlessness.

Die Bestimmung des Geschlechts
nebst einer Analyse des Geschlechtsdimorphismus bei Bonellia. Mittheilung
R. O. Berry. 1939. Obsercms der Zool. Station zu Neapel 22:1-44.
vations on chromosome elimination in the germ cells of Sciara ocellaris.
Develop1933.
F. H. Billings.
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 25:125-127.
ment of the embryo-sac in Phoradendron. Ann. Bot. 47:261-278.
C. B. Bridges. 1925. Sex in relation to chromosomes and genes. Amer.
F. Baltzer.

Science 99:124.

1914.

W. E. Castle.

Natur. 59:127-137.

1930.

sex and the genetic character of haploid males.

Crew.

783-791.

F. A. E.

Genotj'pical.

Quart. Rev. Biol.

B. Spassky.

1941.

1926.

The quantitative theoiy of
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 16:

Abnormal sexuality in animals. I.
Th. Dobzhansky and

1:315-359.

Intersexes in Drosophila pseudoobscura.

Proc. Nat.

Acad. Sci. 27:556-562.
R. A. Emerson. 1932. The present status of
F.
maize genetics. Proc. VI Internal. Cong. Genetics 1:141-152.
Hereditas
Fagerlind.
1940.
Die Terminologie der Apomixis-Prozesse.
26:1-22.
1938.
Sex differentiation in a haploid
G. Fankhauser.
G. Fanksalamander, Triton taeniatus Laur. J. Exp. Zool. 79:35-49.

567

Specific References

HAUSER, 1942. Induction of polyploid}' in animals by extremes of temperaR. Goldschmidt. 1934. Lymantria.
tme. Biol. Symposia 6:21-35.
A. Gust.\fsson. 1946. Apomixis in higher
Bibliogr. Genet. 11 1-186.
H.
Kungl. Fysiografiska Sdllskapets Handl. N. F. 57:1-66.
plants.
Entwicklungsvorgaenge
die
ersten
ueber
Untersuchungen
1891.
Hen KING.
in den Eiern der Insekten. II. Zeits. Wissenschaftliche Zoologie 51 :685-736.
:

D. F. Jones.

Unisexual maize plants and their bearing on sex
Genetics 19:552-567.
Sex intergrades in dioecious maize, Amer. J. Bat. 26:
1934.

differentiation in other plants and in animals.

D. F. Jones.

1939.

412-415.

C. KosswiG.

bei niichtsverwandten Arten

1936.
Nicht homologe Heterochromosomen
(Kreuzimg von Platypoecilus maculatus und

G. A. Lebedeff. 1938.
Intersexuality in Drosophila vinlis and its bearing on sex determination.
F. R. Lillie. 1916. The theory of
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 24:165-172.

PL xiphidium).

Biol. Zentralbl. 56:199-207.

the free-martin,

^dence 43:611-613.

H. C. McPhee.

fluence of environment on sex in hemp, Cannabis sativa L.

1924.
J.

The in-

Agric. Res.

Chromosome behavior, inherit1938.
C. W. Metz.
Natur. 72:485-520.
Amer.
Sciara.
determination
in
ance, and sex
Chromosomes in the spermatogenesis of the
1906.
T. H. Montgomery.
T.
Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. 21:97-124.
Hermiptera-heteroptera.
28:1067-1080.

1935. Chromosomen und Sexualitat von Rumex acetosa. Sci. Rept.
R. C. Rollins. 1945. Evidence for
Tokuku Imp. Univ. 10:41-210.
genetic variation among apomictically produced plants. Amer. J. Bot. 32:

Ono.

H. Sch.\ffner. 1929. Heredity and sex. Ohio J. Sci. 29:
1-26.
A. F. Shull. 1929. Determination of types of individuals in
G. H. Shull.
aphids, rotifers, and cladocera. Biol. Rev. 4:218-248.
1943. Genetics, the unifying science in biology, Torreya 43:126-131.
Stanley G. Smith. 1945. Heteropycnosis as a means of diagnosing sex.
G. L. Stebbins, Jr. 1941. Apomixis in the
/. Hered. 36:194-196.
7:507-542.
H. E. Warmke. 1942. PolyAngiosperms. Bot. Rev.
H. E.
ploidy investigations. Carnegie Inst. Year Book 41:186-189.
Warmke. 1946. Sex determination and sex balance in Melandrium. Amer.
H. E. Warmke and A. F. Blakeslee. 1940. The
J. Bot. 33:648-660.
establishment of a 4n dioecious race in Melandrium. Amer. J. Bot. 27:
554-560.

J.

751-762.
tix

magnus.

D. H. Wenrich.

1916.

Museum. Comp.

Zool.

Westerg.\ard.

1938.

142:917.

P.

The spermatogenesis of Phrynotet-

Harvard Bull. 60:55-136.
Induced tetraploidy in Melandrium album.

W. W^hiting.

1940.

M,
Nature

Multiple alleles in sex determina-

P. W. Whiting. 1943.
complementary sex determination of Habrobracon.
Androgenesis in the
1943.
P. W. Whiting.
Genetics 28:365-382.
P. W. Whiting.
parasitic wasp Habrobracon. J. Hered. 34:355-366.
:231-260.
Biol.
20
Quart.
Rev.
evolution
male
haploidy.
1945. The
of
P. W. Whiting, R. J. Greb, and B. R. Speicher. 1934. A new type of sexH. Winkler. 1908. tJber ParBiol. Bull. 66:152-165.
intergi-ade.
thenogenesis und Apogamie in Pflanzenreich. Prog. Rei. Bot. 2:293-454.
Y. Yamamoto. 1938. Karyogenetische Untersuchungen bei der Gattung Rumex VI. Mem. Coll. Agric. Kyoto Imp. Univ. 43:1-59.

tion of Habrobracon.

Multiple

alleles

in

y. Mo77>/i.

66:323-355.

Specific References

568

CHAPTER 30
E. Anderson. 1936. Hybridization in American Tradescantias. I. and II.
E. Anderson and L. Hubricht.
Ann. Mo. Bot. Gard. 23:511-525.

Hybridization in Tradescantia. III. The evidence for introgressive
E. Anderson and T. W.
Amer. J. Bot. 25:396-402.

1938.

hybridization.

Whitaker.

1934.

Speciation in Uvularia.

Crepis.
1938.

J.

Arnold Arboretum 15:28-42.

Systematics, cytogenetics and evolution in

E. B. Babcock.
Bot. Rev. 8:139-190.

1942.

E. B. Babcock and G. L. Stebbins, Jr.

The American species of Crepis.

Carnegie Inst. Wash. Publ. 504:1-

E. B. B.\BC0CK, G. L. Stebbins, Jr., and J. A. Jenkins. 1942. GeAmer. Natur. 76:337-363.
netic evolutionary processes in Crepis.
1944.
New hybrids from incompatible
A. F. Blakeslee and S. Satina.
194.

Datura through culture of excised embryos on malt media.
R. A. Brink. 1935. Cj^togenetic evolutionary
Science 99:331-334.
R. A. Brink, D. C.
processes in plants. Amer. Natur. 69:97-124.
Cooper, and L. E. Ausherman. 1944. A hybrid between Hordeum jubaJ. Cl.\usen, D. D.
tum and Secale cereale. J. Hered. 35:67-75.
Keck, and W. H. Hiesey. 1941. Regional differentiation in plant species.
R. E. Cleland. 1931. Cytological eviAmer. Natur. 75:231-250.
dence of genetical relationships in Oenothera. Amer. J. Bot. 18:629-640.
R. E. Cleland. 1944. The problem of species in Oenothera. Amer.
Ueber Bastardierungsversuche
1902.
Natur. 78:5-28.
C. Correns.
crosses in

mit Mirabilis-Sippen.
1940.

Speciation

Dobzhansky.

in

1937.

L. R. Dice.
Ber. deutsch. Bot. Ges. 20:549-608.
Th.
Peromyscus.
Amer. Natur. 74:289-298.
Natur.
Amer.
Genetic nature of species differences.

Th. Dobzhansky, 1937. What is a species? Scientia,
Th. Dobzhansky. 1943. Genetics and human
May, 1937:280-286.
1944.
Th. Dobzhansky.
Teaching Biologist 12:97-106.
affairs.
71:404-420.

Genetic

structure

Book 43:120-127.

of

natural

populations.

A. E. Emerson.

Carnegie

1938.

The

Inst.

review of Dobzhansky, Genetics and the origin of species.
154.

genetics.

A. E. Emerson.

1945.

Entomol. News 5Q:14-IQ.

Taxonomic

Wash.

Year
a

origin of species:

categories

R.H.Goodwin.

Ecology 19:152and population
1937.

The cyto-

genetics of two species of Solidago and its bearing on their polymorphy in

Amer. J. Bot. 24:425-432.
G. H. Hardy. 1908. Mendelian
proportions in a mixed population. Science 28:49-50.
C. L. Hubbs,
L. C. Hubbs, and R. E. Johnson. 1943. Hybridization in nature between
species of Catostomid fishes. Univ. Mich. Lab. Vert. Biol. Contrib. 22:1-76.
C. L. Hubbs and S. C. Whitlock. 1929. Diverse types of form development in a single species of fish, the gizzard shad. Papers Mich. Acad.
Sci., Arts, and Letters 10:461-482.
C. L. Huskins. 1941. Polyploidy
75:329-344.
D. S. Jordan. 1905. The
and mutations. Amer. Natur.
A, C. Kinsey.
origin of species through isolation. Science 22 :545-562.

nature.

The origin of higher categories in Cynips. Indiana Univ. Publ., Sci.
D. Lewis. 1941. Male sterihty in natural populations
W. J. Moenkhaus.
of hermaphrodite plants. New Phytol. 40:56-63.
1936.

Ser. 4:1-334.

Specific References
1910.

Cross fertilization among fishes.

H. J. MuLLER.

393.

P. A.

66:118-138.

1932.

569

Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1910 :353-

Some genetic aspects of sex. Amer. Natur.

Munz.

1935.
Studies in Onagraceae. IX. Amer.
van
Overbeek,
M. E. Coxklix, and A. F.
J.
Blakeslee. 1942. Cultivation in vitro of small Datura embryos. Amer. J.
J. T. Patterson.
Bot. 29:472-477.
1942.
Isolating mechanisms in
the genus Drosophila. Biol. Symposia 6:271-287.
K. Pe.\rson. 1904.

Bot. 22:645-663.

J.

On a generalised theory of alternative inheritance, with special reference
Philos. Trans. Roy. Soc. A203:53-86.
O. Renner.
Die pfianzenlichen Plastiden als selbstaendige Elemente der genetischen Konstitution, Ber. Math. Phys. Sdchsischen Scad. Wiss. 86:241-266.
G. E. Du RiETZ. 1930. The fundamental units of botanical taxonomy. Svensk. Bot. Tidskrift 24:333-428.
H. P. Riley. 1938. A character analysis of colonies of Iris fulva, Iris hexagona var. giganticaerulea
and natural hybrids. Amer. J. Bot. 25:727-738.
G. H. Shull. 1923.
The species concept from the point of view of a geneticist. Amer. J. Bot.
10:221-228.
G. H. Shull. 1929. Significance of taxonomic units and
their natural basis. Point of view of genetics. Proc. Internat. Cong. Plant

to Mendel's laws.
1934.

M. J. Sirks. 1938. Plasmatic inheritance. Bot.
G. W. Skirm. 1942. Embrj^o culturing as an aid to
plant breeding.
J. Hered. 33:211-215.
1940.
G. L. Stebbins, Jr.
The significance of polyploidy in plant evolution. Amer. Natur. 74:54-66.
Sci.

2:1578-1585.

Rev. 4:113-131.

G. L. Stebbins, Jr.
tion of plant species.

1942.

Biol.

The Hardy- Weinberg law.

The role of isolation in the differentia-

Symposia 6:217-233.

C. Stern.

1943.

H. A. Tobgy. 1943.
A cytological study of Crepis juliginosa, C. neglecta, and their Fi hybrid,
etc.
J. Genet. 45:67-111.
G. Turesson. 1932. Die Genezentrumtheorie and des Entwicklimgszentrum der Pflanzenart.
Kungl. Fysiogr.
2:76-86.
Sallsk. i Lund Forhdl.
G. Turesson. 1936. Rassenokologie
und Pflanzengeographie. Einige kritische Bemerkungen. Botaniska Notiser
1936:420-437.
W. Weinberg. 1908. Uber den Nachweis der Vererbung beim Menschen. Verein f. vaterldndische Naturkunde in Wiirttemberg Jahreshefte 64:368-382.
Die genetF. von V/ettstein.
1937.
Zeits.
ische und entwicklungsphysiologische Bedeutung der Cytoplasmas.
1938.
O. Winge.
j. indukt. Abstamm.- u. Vererb-lehre 73:349-366.
The genetic aspect of the species problem. Proc. Linn. Soc. London, Session 150:231-238.
Evolution in mendelian popu1931.
S. Wright.
1946.
The differential
lations.
Genetics 16:97-159.
S. Wright.
Science 97:137-138.

equation of the distribution of gene frequencies.
382-389.

S. Wright.

tems of mating.

1946.

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 31

Isolation by distance under diverse sys-

Genetics 31 :39-59.

AUTHOR INDEX
Aberg,

E, 247, 555

Bernstein, F., 284, 285, 2S6, 288

Addair, J., 33, 34, 548

Berry, R. J. A., 548

Allen, C. E., 505, 548, 566

Berry, R. 0., 491, 492, 566

Altenburg, E., 260, 545, 554
Anderson, E., 333, 334, 520, 525, 526,

Billings. F. H., 566

527, 528, 563, 568

Bishop, M., 260, 555

Anderson, E. G., 279, 548, 552
Anderson-Kotto, I., 548

Black,

Blakeslee, A. F., 43, 243, 328, 407,

Ashby, E., 560
Astbury,

W. H., 560

Blackburn, K. B., 468, 564

A, 566

Asdell, S.

Birdsall. J. E., 450, 556

W. T., 553

Atwood, S. S., 277, 556, 558
Ausherman, L. E., 525, 568

411,

419,

420,

423,

450,

473,

478,

506,

524,

548,

555,

559,

561,

562,

563,

564,

565,

566,

567,

568,

569

Blank, F, 558

Avery, A. G., 562, 564, 565

Blankinship,

J.

W., 548

Bloch, R., 548

Babcock, E.

B.,

531, 532, 533, 545,

555, 568

Balbiani, E. G., 74, 549
Balls,

Bonner, D. M., 558

Book, J. A., 472
Boycott, A. E., 558

W. L, 545

Boyd, W. C., 557

Baltzer, F., 438, 563, 566

Bamford, R., 435, 436, 450, 563
Bartlett, H. H., 240, 554
Bateson, W., 163, 164, 326, 328, 553,

C.

B,

68,

150,

167,

194,

425,

482,

506,

548,

551,

552,

Bridges,
195,

554, 555, 562, 566

Bridges, P. X., 193, 194, 195, 552

559

Bauer, H., 75, 549
Baur, E., 101, 240, 323, 545, 550, 559
Beadle, G. W.,

154,

175,

307,

314,

Brieger, F., 275, 556

Brink,

R.

A.,

408,

443,

444, 525,

154,

164,

166,

406,

551,

561,

563,

568

547, 551, 558

W. H., 244, 554

Beal, J. M., 564

Brittingham,

Beale, G. H., 258, 259, 555

Brown, M. S., 563

Beasley, J. 0., 458, 564

Brugger,

Beers, C. V., 130, 131, 550

Bryson, V., 36, 548

Belkin, R. B., 296, 557

Bucher, C. S., 548

Bell, F. 0., 553

Buchholz, J. T., 388, 560

Bell,

J.,

Belling,

Burnham, C. R., 406, 561
Burnham, L., 557

199, 552
J.,

C, 548

562, 563

Bellows, J. M., Jr., 563

Buxton, B. H., 563

Beneden, E. van, 547
Berger, C. A., 549, 565

Cain, S. A., 545

Bergner, A. D., 411, 561, 563, 565

Capinpin,
571

J.

M., 548

Author Index

572

Carolina Biological Supply Co., 8
Carothers, E. E., 126, 127, 134, 550
Caspersson, T., 267, 555
Castle,
356,

Demerec,
254,

M.,

260,

219,

238,

239,

241,

337,

545,

550,

265, 266,

553, 554, 555, 556, 558, 559

E.,

182,

272,

283,

355,

Dermen, H., 478, 565

357, 481,

551,

556,

557,

559,

De Vries, H., 202, 225, 545

W.

Dice, L. R., 522, 523, 568

566
Catcheside,

G,

D.

428,

4^9,

562,

C, 558

Diver,

Dobzhansky, Th., 189, 190, 191, 223,

564
Cattell, E., 550

•Chambers, R.,

547

9,

Chang, M. S., 184, 551
Charles, D. R., 557, 560
Child, G. P., 33, 34, 254, 255, 356,
549, 555

Christensen, H.

M, 435, 436, 563

Clancy, C. W., 558

398,

402,

486,

496,

522,

545,

552,

553,

556,

560,

561,

566, 5^8

Dodge, B. 0., 558
Doncaster,

550

L.,

Doutreligne,

J.,

553

Dubinin, N.

P.,

556

Dunn, L. C, 34, 36, 547, 548
Durham, G. H., 321, 559

Clark, L. A., 130, 131, 550
J.,

386,

524,

Duggar, B. M., 552
Dunkle, P. B., 91, 550

Chumlea, B. J., 93

Clausen,

231,

564, 568

Clausen, R. E., 459, 545, 563, 564

Duryee,

W. R., 549

Cleland, R. E., 534, 535, 536, 561,
East, E. M.. 272, 273, 277, 349, 350,

568

Cobb, V, 279, 556
Cockayne, E. A., 39, 199, 545

351,

352,

353,

359,

360,

361,

365,

378,

379,

386,

387,

556,

559,

560

Collins, J. L., 555

Edmonds, H., 94

Colvin, E. M., 547

Eigsti, 0.

Conant, George H., 52
Conger, A. D., 563

Ekas,

Emerson, A.
Emerson, R.

Conklin, E. G., 303, 304, 558

M. E., 524, 569
Cooper, D. C, 443, 444,

365,

Conklin,

525,

549,

513,

Emerson,

E., 516, 568
A..

154,

175, 237, 279.

548,

551,

554,

560,

566

277, 556

S.,

Ephrussi, B., 307, 558

563, 568

Epling,

Cooper, K. W., 214, 216, 553
Correns,

474, 565

J.,

M. P., 545

C, 540, 545, 568

D. P., 472
Creighton, H. B., 203, 204, 553, 561
Crew, F. A. E., 494, 495, 545, 566
Costello,

Crotta, R., 472

C,

Faberge, A.

C, 258, 259, 555, 561

Fagerlind, F., 513, 566

Fankhauser, G.. 438, 4S9, 442, 450,
472, 563, 565, 566

Fano, U., 555

Curtis, G. M., 39, 549

Farnham, M. E., 562, 563
Filzer, P., 272

Darlington,
222,

C.

517, 545,

D.,

214,

220,

221,

Fink, H. K., 548

551,

553,

561,

563,

Fischer, E., 545

564

Fisher,

R.

A.,

135,

163,

Darwin, C, 226, 272, 369, 545
Davenport, C. B, 545, 548, 560

Flemming, W., 547

Davidsohn, I., 296, 557

Ford, C. E., 428. 563

Dawson, C. D. R., 449, 563

Eraser, A.

297,

557, 559

C,

154,

175, 551

545.

Author Index

573

Frey-Wyssling, A., 558

Hollingshead, L., 462, 463, 565

Friesen, H., 551

Hoover, M. E., 265, 266, 556
Hopkins, C. G., 378, 560
Houlahan, M. B., 260, 555

C, 551

Fruwirth,

Fryer, J. R., 379, 381, 560

Hiibbs, C. L., 528, 529, 530, 568

Gager,

Hubbs, L. C, 530, 568

243, 555

S.,

Gairdner, A. E., 561

Hubricht,

Gammelgaard, W., 557

Humphrey, L. M., 549, 564
Humphrey. R. R., 472

Gardner, F. D., 387, 561
Garstang, S., 558

Hurst,

N, 561

Glass, L.

568

Hunt. H. R., 560

Gates, R. R., 545
Giles,

L., 520, 528,

CO., 468, 565

Huskins,

C, 548

C.

L.,

14,

457,

553,

565,

568

Gluecksohn-Schoenheimer,

S.,

36,

548

Goldschmidt, R, 483, 484, 493, 546,

Husted. L., 393, 547, 561
Hutt, F. B., 33, 34, 549
Huxley, J., 546

556, 567

Goodwin, R. H., 568
Greb, R. J., 567
Greenleaf,

Ikin, E. W., 557

Imai, Y., 331, 559

W. H, 477, 565

Gregory, P.

W, 357, 559

Immer, F. R.,

159, 551

Ives, P. T., 254, 556

Gregory, R. P, 559

Ammal, E. K.. 545

Griffen. A. B., 194, 196, 552

Janaki

R. B., 565
Gustafsson, A., 247, 555, 560, 567

Janssens, F. A., 202, 206, 553

Haan, H. de, 556

Jenkins,

Hadley, P. R., 559
Hagedoorn, A. C, 560
Hagedoorn, A. L., 354, 560
Haldane, J. B. S, 197, 199, 552

Johannsen, W., 369. 370, 371, 376,
546
Johnson, R. E., 530, 568
Johnston, D., 444, 564
Jones, D. F.. 237, 385, 386, 387, 388,

Griffiths,

C, 295. 296

Javert,

Jenkins, J. A., 532, 533, 568

Hallquist,

C, 550

Hanson, F. B., 556
Hardy, G. H., 538,
Harlan,

J.

512, 513, 554, 560. 567
539, 568

R., 565

Hawthorn, L. R., 382, 383, 561
Hayes, H. K., 184. 551, 560
Hays, F. A., 99, 382, 560
Hearne, E. M., 553
Hefner, R. A., 40. 41, 102, 549, 550
Hegner, R. H., 546
Heitz, E., 75, 549

Henking, H., 567
Heuser, F., 547
Heys, F., 556
Hiesey,

M. T., 379

W. H.. 568

Higbee, E.. 476, 565
Hollaender, A., 260, 555

Jones,

W. N., 546

Jordan, D. S., 568
Jorgensen, C. A., 478, 565
Jull,

M. A., 87, 381, 561

Kaliss, N., 199, 552

Karowe, H. E., 289. 557
Karpechenko, G. D., 459, 565
Katayama, Y., 563
Katzin, E. M., 557

Kaufmann, B. P., 74,
Kavanagh, A, J., 558
Keck, D. D., 568

547. 549. 554

Keeler, C. E., 39, 94, 278, 279, 283,
548, 549, 556, 557

Author Index

574
Kendall,

M. G., 547

Mather, K.,

Matsuura, H., 546
Meares, R. S., 312
Mendel, G., 20, 82, 126, 147
Metz, C. W., 488, 490, 567
Miyaki, K., 331, 559

King, E., 442, 563
Kinsey, A. C, 522, 568

Knowles, P.

192, 212, 357, 546, 548,

552, 553, 559, 560, 562

Kihara, H., 563

F., 322,

559

Koelreuter, J. G., 272, 556

Kohn, E., 199, 552
Komai, T., 199, 552

Moenkhaus, W. J., 568

Montgomery, T. H., 567

Koos, K., 477, 566
Kosswig, C, 483, 567

Morgan, T. H.,
231,

La Cour, L., 220, 221. 233. 553

243,

502,

147,

150,

202,

225,

546,

548,

550,

552,

553, 554

Lammerts, W. E., 415. 563. 564
Lancefield, D. E., 552

Morrison, G.. 561

Landauer, W., 22, 548

Mott-Smith, L. M., 556

Landsteiner, K., 282. 284. 286, 287,

Moiilton, F. R., 546

Morrow, G. E., 387, 561

Muller, H. J.,

290, 291, 557

Lang, A., 546, 560
Lawrence, W. J. C. 312. 313. 430,

252,

255,

16, 188, 240, 243, 244.

546,

548,

Mimz, P. A., 534, 568

Lenz, F., 545

Murray, J., 297
Myers, W. M., 564

Levan, A., 475, 564, 565
Levine, M., 566
287,

290.

556,

464. 466, 562. 564. 565

Lehmann, E., 272

P.,

555,

Miintzing. A.. 435. 453, 458, 459, 460,

468, 558, 563, 565

Lebedeff, G. A., 485. 567

Levine,

552,

568

291.

295,

296,

297, 557

Nabours, R. K., 403
Navashin, M., 440, 452, 564

Lewis, D., 556, 568

Neatby, K. W., 450, 563

Lillie, F. R., 495.

Nebel, B. R., 473, 475, 476, 548, 549,

567

566

Lindegren, C. C.. 553
Lindegren, G., 553

Newton, W. C. F., 565

Lindstrom, E. W., 477, 564, 566

Nilsson, F., 374, 561

Nilsson-Ehle, H., 331, 336, 342, 353,

Little,

C. C., 546

Little,

T. M., 566

357, 464, 559

Longley, A. E., 125, 551
Offerman, E. M., 557

McClintock,
395,

B.,

55,

203,

204,

393,

396, 399,

4I6,

553

561,

562,

563

McClung, C. E., 549
McPhee, H. C., 511, 567
Mackensen, 0., 194, 552
Macklin, M. T., 44, 549

Olmo, H. P., 563
O'Mara, J. G., 474> 566
Ono, T., 506, 567
Onslow, H., 313, 558
Onslow,

M. W., 312, 546

van Overbeek, J., 310, 311, 524, 558,
569

Magness, J. R., 551
188, 194, 549, 552

Mangelsdorf, A. J., 272, 273, 275, 556

Painter, T.

Manton, I., 454, 554, 564

Palmer, D. M., 199, 553

Marcussen, P. V., 557

Park,

S.,

J. B., 272,

556

Author Index
Patterson, J. T., 194, 549, 552, 555,

575

Schaffner, J. H., 510, 567

Schiemann, E., 459, 546

569

M. D., 557

Pearl, R., 118, 546, 549

Schonfeld,

Pearson, K., 538, 546, 569

Schrader, F., 546

Pellew,

C, 565

Schultz,

Perrot,

M, 472

Schweitzer,

H. H, 546

Scott. L. B., 554

Pfeiffer,

Philp,

546

J.,

J.,

240, 267, 554. 555

M. D., 199, 552

Scott-Moncrieff, R.. 312, 313, 558

Pincus, G., 476, 566

Plough, H. H.,

167,

Sears, E. R., 437, 459, 461, 564, 565
251,

254,

255,

Senn. P. H., 154, 551

Shamel, A. D., 554

256, 263, 551, 555, 556

Polivka, H. R., 557

Sharp, L. W.. 546

Pomeroy, S. C, 554

Sherman. M. A., 547

Potter, E. L., 43, 296, 549, 557

Shull, A. F., 388, 547, 567

Prakken, R., 565
Prell, H, 272, 556

Shull, G. H., 73, 101, 103, 126, 161.
162,

226, 227, 228,

240, 244,

323.

Price, J. R., 558

324,

353,

354,

368,

384,

387.

464,

M, 557

503.

549.

550,

551,

554,

559.

560,

Prior, A.

Prokofyeva-Belgovskaj'a,

A.,

267,

551,

553,

553

561, 567, 569

Siderov, B. X., 556

Pimnett, R.

C,

163,

164,

559

Siemens, H. W., 199, 552

W. R, 183, 551, 561

Singleton.
Sinnott,

Race, R. R., 291, 296, 297, 557

E. W., 315, 316, 321, 547,

548, 558, 559, 565

Randolph, L. F, 411, 552, 562
Reed, S. C, 35
Renner, 0., 541, 569
Rhoades, M. M., 175, 241, 259, 269,

Sirks,

M. J!, 569

Skirm. G. W., 569
Skovsted. A., 458, 565

Smith. H. H., 352, 353, 449, 451, 560,
564, 566

279, 429, 554, 556, 563

Richards, 0. W.. 558

Smith. L. H., 560

Richardson, M. M., 564

Smith, S. G., 487, 4SS, 567
Snedecor. C. W., 547

Rick, C. M., 393, 562

Du Rietz, G. E., 569
Riley, H. P., 35, 272, 521, 548, 556,

Snyder. L. H.. 33, 34, 39, 199, 325,
546. 547, 548, 549, 550, 553. 557

Sonn. E. B., 296, 557

566, 569

Robertson, W. R. B., 403

Spassky. B.. 486, 496, 566

Robinson, T. R., 554

Speicher, B. R., 567

Rollins, R., 567

Spencer,

Ruttle,

M. L., 475, 566

W. P., 240, 554

Stadler, L. J., 236, 243, 247, 392, 555,

562

Sanborn, R., 560
Sansome, F. W., 546
Satina,

S.,

Sax, K., 393, 394, 401, 406, 438, 440,
471,

548,

549,

563, 564, 565, 566

G.

Steele,

H. J., 438, 440, 450, 548, 564

465,

M. F., 253. 555

Stebbins,

553,

560,

L.,

Jr.,

467,

513.

532,

533, 565, 567, 568, 569

564, 565, 566, 568

Saunders, E. R., 559
Sax,

Stancati,

562,

D. G., 382, 561

Stern, C., 190, 203, 205, 216, 550, 553,
557, 569

Stetson, R. E., 291, 557

Stoddard, S. E., 94, 549

Author Index

576

A, 548

Stone, L. H.
Stone,

W. S., 194, 196, 552

Stout. A. B.. 557, 561

Strandskov, H. H, 41, 285, SS6, 288,
291, 549, 557

Wellensiek, S.

J.,

566

m,

C, 312, 313, 558

Sturgess, V.

Warner. M. F., 547
Warwick, B. L., 91, 113, 550
Watson, R. C., 565
Weinberg, W., 538, 539, 569

Stiirtevant, A. H., 402, 547, 548, 553,
558. 561

Wenrich, D. H..
567
Westergaard. M., 506, 567
Westfall, J.

J.,

564

Sullivan, J. T., 558

Wettstein, F. von, 452, 569

Sutton, E., 391, 406, 554, 562

Whaley, C. Y., 317, 559
Whaley, W. G., 317, 318, 559, 561

Sutton,

W. S., 202. 553

Swanson, C. R., 562

Wheldale, M., 312
Whitaker, T. W.. 528, 562, 568
White, M. J. D., 547, 562

Tammes, T., 323
Tatum, E. L., 307, 314, 558
Taylor. G. L., 291, 296, 297, 557

Whiting, A. R., 2^7, 555
Whiting, P. W., 246, 253, 260, 261,

Thomsen, 0.. 557
Thompson, W. P., 444, 564

Whitlock,

Tice, S.

500, 555, 567

C, 231, 554

Timofeeff-Ressovsky,

N.

W.,

232,

554, 555

296, 297, 298, 547. 557

Wilson, E. B., 547, 550

Tobgy, H. A., 533, 565, 569
P.,

Winge, O., 553, 569

554

von Tschermak, E.,

Winkler, F. B.. 450, 563
132, 551

Winkler, H., 567

Turesson, G., 569

Winton, D. de, 551, 559
Woods, M. W., 564

Upham, E., 548

Wright,
Viosca, P.,

Jr.,

306,

520

Waddington, C. H.,

17,

220,

476,

114,

115,

123,

165,

305.

313,

357,

373, 550,

559,

561, 565

Walker. J. F., 102
E,.

Yamamoto, Y., 506, 567
Yarnell, S. H., 277, 382, 383, 462, 556,

547, 548, 566

Warmke, H.

S.,

307,

560, 561, 569

Vogel, P., 557

73,

450,

506,

508, 509, 550, 563, 566, 567

Note.

568

Williams, R. D., 277. 557, 559

Tjebbes, K., 548

Traub,

S. C., 528,

Wiener, A. S., 289, 291, 293, 294, 295.

507,

Yost, D. H., 548

Yule, G. U., 547

In this index and the subject index which follows the refer-

ences in italics are to figures and tables.

SUBJECT INDEX
Abraxis type of sex inheritance, 481

Antigin. 282, 283, 284, 286, 290, 291

Accessory chromosome, 69
fragment, 394, 397,

399, 400
Aegilops cylindrica, 465, 466
Agamospermy, 513

Apomixis, 513, 514, 531, 533
Apotettix eurycephahis, 403
Arbacia punctata, 476
Archips jumijerana, 487, 4SS
Arphia simplex, 134

Agglutination, 282

Artemia salina, 450

Agglutinins. 283 ff.

Ascaris megalocephala, 10

Acentric

398,

Agglutinogens, 283 ff.

Albinism,

Aster, 5

34, 278. 313, 350.

Asj^napsis, 471

542

Alfalfa. 379. 380, 3S1

Atriplex hymenelytra, 505

Allele, 17 ff., 82, 138

Attached-X chromosomes,

multiple, 27, 28, 90, 92, 103. IO4.

483

271 ff.,

Autopolyploids,

105.

162,

278,

283 ff.,

498-501

248, 414,

440-454,

433,

456,

470, 473

Allelomorph, 19

size of, 449, 450, 451, 453

Allium, induction of polyploids

in,

473, 474

number of chromosomes in, 6, 11,
12

Autosomes, 70, 71, 72, 77, 89, 96, 133,
173. 505, 506, 508
heterochromatin in, 222, 223

ratio

to

chromosomes,

sex

483, 506, 507

Allohexaploids. 465, 466
Allopolyploid, 433, 456 ff., 470, 473,

AutosA'ndesis, 461, 462

Autotetraploid,

533

433,

433.

445-449,

453.

454. 456

Allosyndesis. 461. 462
Allotetraploid.

482,

445,

449.

456.

457. 464

size in, 445, 449, 450. 451, 453

Autotriploid, 433, 440-445, 453, 456,
462, 463

genetic ratios in. 460, 461

Auxin, 310, 311

Allotriploid. 462. 463

Alternation of generations, 50, 514

Average deviation, 362

Amphidiploid, 437, 456 ff., 460, 461,

Axolotl, 472

533

Anaphase, 7 ff
62, 71,

Anasa

tristis,

.,

8,

13,

53 ff., 54, 60,

Backcross, 84, 85, 138, 155, 157, 518,
526, 528, 542

72

Bacteria, 309

72

Androgenesis, 501

Balanced lethals, 534, 536, 537

Aneuploid, 414 ff., 451

Bands,

Animal breeding, 367 ff

salivary

194, 251,

gland,

267

and genes, 224

Annelids, 523

Anomozygous mutations, 226

number of, 193

Antibody, 282, 284, 286, 290, 292

Barley, 132, 247, 331

577

75-77,

193,

Subject Index

578
Barley-iye hybrids, 444, 445

Capsella (Bursa)

Barriers, 402, 518, 519, 532, 536

(continued)

ocddentalis, 464

ecological, 520, 521

orientalis, 464

removal of, 520, 521, 536
Bean, 27, 369, 370

penarthae, 464

Bee, 67, 502

tuscaloosae, 464

rubella, 62, 464

Beetles, 523

Viguieri, 82, 464

Bihio hortulanus, 75

Carpellate flowers, 503

Binomial theorem, 110, 111, 112, 113,

Cat, 278, 279

120, 140, 345

Catalyst, 307, 311

Biotype, 371, 374, 378, 379, 384, 459,
536

Cattle, Africander, 382

Birds, 70, 71, 281, 523

Brahman, 382

Biscutella laevigata, 454

horns

Bisexual flowers, 502

Bivalent
416,

chromosomes,
417,

441,

442,

57 ff.,

210,

U6,

W,

1,

2

dividing, Off., 8, 10, 13

metabolic, 2

parenchyma, 4
resting, 2 ff.

somatic, 13

290, 291

beings,

293,

Cell,

2S6,

Blood types, in human beings, M-N,

292,

HI. 112

108,

embryonic, 3, 4

287, 288, 289, 290

human

in,

sex reversal in, 494, 495

U8, 457 ff., 460, 463
Blood groups, 282 ff.
in human beings, A-B, 284,

in

Catostomidae, 530

294,

Rh,

289,

291,

Cell polarity, 317

295,

296,

297,

Cell wall,

298

3,

4

Centric fragment, 394, 411, 429, 441

Bombyx, 450

Centriole, 5

Bonellia, 495

Centromere, 7 ff

Bouquet stage, 55
Brachystola, magna, 134

53 ff.. 77, 124,

16.

.,

125, 149, 191, 216. 224, 393, 418

breaking

429

of, 395,

Breeding true, 371

distance of genes near, 191, 194

Bromus arizonicus, 467
Bromus carinatus, 467

of

Brother-and-sister matings, 367, 368,
369, 373

B-type chromosomes, 411
Bud mutation, 234, 235
Butterflies, 70, 481

Cabbage, 11, 459
Cabbage-radish hybrid, 459
Callus formation and polyploids,
477, 478

Capsella (Bursa), 126
bursa-pastoris, 88, 330, 331, 464

djurdjurae, 464
grandiflora, 62, 82, 272, 464

Heegeri, 330, 331, 464

chromosome IV of Drosophila
vielanogastcr,

Centrosome,

3,

194,

196

13

Centrosphere, 5

Chance,

109, 114, 136,

434

importance of in locating genes

on chromosomes,

171, 174

Character, 19

Character index, 528

"Checkerboard,"
138,

Chemical

83,

127,

128,

139, 158, 323, 324,

nature,

of

137,

538

chromosome,

220
of genes, 230

Chemicals, effect on crossing over,
167

Subject Index

Chromonema,

Chemicals (continued)
induction

polyploids by, 471,

of

for

genotypes by, 328, 329,

330

7,

13 ff\, 14, 52 ff.,

59,

6,

1,

16,

52,

53,

58,

64

daughter, 12

Chi square,

117, 119,

135,

136,

163,

164, 166

202

Chiasmata, 56, 57, 58, 59, 65, 73, 148,

154,
classical

X and Y chromosomes,
214
of,

207, 208

243,

390 ff.,

254,

414 ff.,

Chromosome anastomoses, 7
Chromosome arms, 7, 10, 11,

complementary, 210, 212
diagonal, 211, 212

63,

65, 66

Chromosome circles at meiosis, 4O6,

disparate, 211

407, 408, 409, 427, 428, 429

in trivalents, 417, 4^8

independent formation
noncompensating, 211

of,

210

Chromosome

knobs,

10,

124,

125,

53,

64,

203, 204

nondisjunction and, 425

chiasmatypy and, 207, 208

relation of to crossing over,

Chromosome map, 171 ff.
Chromosome pairing, 52,
414 ff., 491

reciprocal, 174, 210, 212, 214
152,

between the

X and Y chromo-

somes, 214, 215

153, 202

without chiasmata, 213, 214, 215

Chiasmatypy, 206, 207, 208
Chimera. 234, 235
chromosomal, 416, 423, 478

Chromosome reduction, 65
Chromosome "split," 55, 63, 64, 65,
148, 397, 475, 491

flower-color, 238, 239, 430

Chromosome

Chironomus, 74, 75, 78
Chlorophyceae, 503, 504
136,

175 ff.,

structure

meiosis,

at,

52 ff., 54, 55, 56, 60, 62
188,

312,

mitosis, 7ff., 8

Chromosome unbalance,

540 ff.

419,

421,

430

Chloroplast, 4, 540, 541

Chondriosomes, 3
Chromatid, 7, 10 ff., 52 ff., 56, 63 ff.,

Class centers, 360
Class frequency, 345, 360, 361, 362

CIB method, 251, 252, 253, 254, 261

474, 475

152,

124

433 ff., 471, 531, 533

compensating, 211

breaking

10,

Chromosome aberrations, 2, 55, 189,
235,

theory

Chlorophyll,

salivary gland, 74

secondary constriction on,

150, 174, 202

between

effect of calchicine on, 474, 475

location of genes on, 171 ff., 186,

Chiasma frequency, 206, 447

partial

6,

75 ff., 219, 393, 394

Chromosome,

473-476, 474
test

579

of,

57, 65,

157,

167,

147, 148, 150,
171,

173,

174,

178, 179, 202

Chromatid bridge, 398, 399, 4OO, 4OI,

self-sterility in,

277

Coefficient

of

variability,

350,

361,

362, 363

442, 467

Chromatin reticulum, 4. 6. 7

Chromomere, 16, 76

275

Coconut milk, 524, 525

174, 202

267

in,

glucosides and enzymes in, 311

fusion of broken end of, 57, 148,

Chromocenter, 77, 78,

Clone, 66, 374, 441, 518
Clover, flower color

192. 222, 223,

Coiling of chromosomes, 14,

64

Coincidence, 179, 180
Colchicine, 473 ff ., 474, 475

15, 58,

Subject Index

580

Continuous variation,

Colchicum, 473
Collochores, 216

Contributing

Color, animals, 313, 314

Cotton, allopolyploids

barley, 247, 331

white vs. brow^n

279

Coupling,

daisy, 328, 329, 330

flax,

28,

103,

104,

134,

205,

206,

307,

308,

21,

192,

in.

458

154,

lint,

155,

131, 132

156,

157,

Cousins, marriage

of, 367. 369,

373

Cranberry, 478
Crepis,

chromosomes

in,

452,

532,

533

309, 335, 337, 425

karyotypes

323

reciprocal translocations in. 533

Fragaria, 462

in, 532,

pigs,

114,

115,

165,

278,

323
maize, anthocyanin, 154, 155, 157,
158, 164, 166
fruit,

156,

175,

236,

203,

237,

327, 329, 443

purple,

127,

124,

128,

129,

132,

number

533

speciation in, 531, 532, 533
triploids in, 440. 462. 463

Crepis capillaris, 462, 4^3, 532
Crepis conyzaejolia, 532

Crepis juliginosa, 532, 533

seedlings, 136, 175

Nemesia strumosa,

Crepis leontodontoides, 532
Crepis Mungierii, 532
Crepis neglecia, 533

mouse, 278, 323, 336, 355
120,

532, 533

Crepis kashmirica, 532

133, 241, 280, 320

117,

in,

reduction in chromosome

fowl, 325, 326

guinea

.

161,

Crepidula plana, 302, 303, 304

173

18, 21, 27,

191,

347,

166, 178

Delphinium, 237, 238, 239
Drosophila melanogaster, body of,
of,

346,

spotted leaves, 131, 132

cotton, 131, 132

eyes

346, 347, 358
342,

351, 371

bean, 323, 324
cat, 278,

genes,

35,

121, 275,

Crepis sibirica, 532
113,

116,

276

Nicotiana, 108, 112, 113, 275, 353

Oenothera, 161, 320
plants, 312, 313

Crepis Sufjreniana, 532
Crepis tectorum, 462, 4^3
Crisscross inheritance, 97
Crossing over, 57, 148, 150, 151, 152,

421

Portulaca, 258, 259

between chromatids, 206
between sister chromatids, 207
between the X and Y chromo-

rabbit, 278, 313, 355

red clover, 275

snapdragon, 323

somes, 197, 198, 214

squash, 321, 325

compound, 212

Streptocarpus, 312, 313
sweet pea, 163, 326, 327, 328

determination of per cent of from

Fo data, 159

wheat, 331, 336, 342, 464

Combined

ratios,

method

double, 173, 174, 175, 177, 178, 179,
of,

128,

129, 137

Complementary genes, 228, 326, 327,
328, 329, 335, 499, 500, 501

Complexes, 427, 534, 536, 537

180, 210

effect of

age on, 167

effect of

environment on, 167
on Fo ratios, 157, 158,

effect

of

160,

161,

162

Compound crossing over, 212

exactness

Conifers, 438

genetical and cytological, 189, 202,

Conjunctive segments, 215

of,

203, 204

208, 209, 210

Subject Index
Crossing over (continued)

Deficiency {continued)

in an inversion, 397, 398, 399, 400,

origin of, 393

X-ray induced, 392, 393, 394, 395

402
in four-strand stage, 206
in

581

male Drosophila,

152,

Deletion, 55, 193, 194, 390, 393. 395
154,

162

Delphinium, 237, 238,

239, 240

in plants, 154, 157

Development of the individual, 301,

chromosomes, 396
not more than 50 per cent, 178,

Diakinesis, 14, 54, 58, 417, 448

in ring

Dicentric chromosome, 396, 397, 398,

211

percentage

of,

150,

152,

153,

154,

160,

166,

155,

157,

158,

159,

171,

176,

177,

178, 211

relation of to chiasmata, 152, 153,

202

399, 400, 401, 442
Digitalis, 458

Dihybrids, 127, 142, 320
modified ratios in. 321 ff.

Dioecious plants, 503 ff.

somatic, 216, 217
use of in locating genes on chro-

mosomes,

171

Dioscorea sinuata, 505
Diploid number of chromosomes,
49, 53

Crossover suppressor, 252, 255, 256,
402

Diploids, production of from haploids,

Cross-sterihty classes, 271, 273, 274,
275, 276, 277

354,

357,

57.

58,

65,

418,

446, 447

Cumulative genes, 331, 332, 343, 345,
353,

477

size in, 449, 450, 4ol

Diplotene, 54, 56,

Cucurbits, 315, 316
358,

371,

372,

385

Discontinuous variation, 346. 358
Dissosteira Carolina, 134

Dominance, reversal of, 88

Cycadales, 440

Dominant genes, 19, 20. 105
Double cross method of breeding

Cytogenetics, 2

Cytological map, 191, 193

Cytology,

302, 303

hybrid corn, 387, 3S8

1

Cytoplasm,

Double crossing over,
3,

5, 6,

4,

9,

10,

12, 78,

540, 542

177,

178,

179,

173, 174, 175,
180,

210,

211,

212, 213

Cytotaxonomy, 2, 438

Double nature of chromosomes, 52,
53, 55, 56, 59, 63

Dactylis glomerata, 435, 453
Dahlia variabilis, 430

Datura, chromosomal chimeras
478

Drosophila, crossing over in. 167
isolating
in,

locations, 404

embryo culture in, 524

terminal deficiencies in, 391

haploids in, 437
reciprocal

translocations

in,

405,

407, 408, 409, 534

trisomies in, 419, 420, 421, 423, 430
250,

domen, 33
heterochromatin

in,

223

Drosophila hydei, heterochromatin,

tions in, 243

27,

triploids in, 440, 450

Drosophila funebris, abnormal ab-

Datura inoxia, 524
Datura Stramonium, induced muta-

Deficiency,

mechanisms in, 523

lethal effect of homozygous trans-

390,

391,

393, 394, 414, 427, 428

behavior of at meiosis, 394

392,

in,

222

Drosophila melanogaster, attached-

X, 248
autosomes in, 70, 506

582

Subject Index

Drosophila
ued)

melanogaster

(contin-

Drosophila melanogaster, genes
{continued)

chromosome

I,

24,

187,

68,

forked, 18, 187, 209, 210

255,

258

fused, 187, 209, 210, 232

chromosome II, 17, 19, 68. 77, 80,

garnet, 187, 335

81, 129, 147, 1S7, 190. 191, 194,

giant, 33

254, 255, 256, 257, 258

hairless, 18, 19, 187, 255

chromosome III, 68, 77. 187, 190,
192,

191,

194,

254,

255,

256,

257, 258
190,

194, 196

,

hairy wing, 187, 232, 265, 266,
267, 394

ivory, 28

chromosome IV, 68, 77, 187,
left

•

jammed, 25, 187
light eye, 187, 191

arm of, 195, 106

male

fertility,

104,

70,

190

crossover suppressor, 252, 255, 256

miniature, 18, 24, 25. 96, 97, ISIf,

double bar, 209, 210, 265
temperature on. 30, 31

minute, 187, 216, 217

effect of

eye-color hormones, 307, 308
first

187, 232

morula, 232

sex-linked mutation in, 225

notch, 77. 224

genes, apricot, 28, 246

pink, 187, 335

aristaless, 182, 187

pinkish, 337

bar, 19, 187, 205, 206, 209, 210,
232, 252, 264, 265, 394, 395

bent, 25, 187

plexus, 25, 180, 181, 182, 187

purple,

134,

18,

black, 173, 180, 181, 182, 187

rolled, 187, 191

blood, 28

ruby, 187, 335

bobbed, 70, 187, 192. 232
brown, 187, 307, 308, 309

scarlet, 187, 192, 309,

buff, 28,

181,

180,

rudimentary, 232

246

335

sepia, 187, 335

cardinal, 187, 308. 309

singed, 187, 216. 217, 235

carnation, 187, 205, 206, 335

speck,

147,

148,

153,

162,

180,

cherry, 28, 246

cinnabar, 187, 308, 309

star, 187,

181,

stubble, 187, 255, 256
thick, 187, 191

curled, 25, 187, 192

tinged, 28, 246

curly, 255, 256

veinlet, 21, 187

150,

151,

152,

153,

162,

173, 180, 181, 182, 187, 346

cut, 25, 187

152,

182, 187

255

cream, 337

curved, 25, 80, 84, 129, 130, 147,

151,

150,

coral, 28, 246

148,

182,

187, 335

vermilion, 21. 187, 308, 309, 335
vestigial,

18,

19,

20, 24, 25, 31.

32, 173, 180, 181, 182, 187, 304

white, 18, 21, 28, 103, 104, 187,

dark, 337

194,

deformed, 255

337, 425, 426

195,

225,

246,

307,

335,

Delta, 21, 187

wine, 28

dichaete, 187, 255

yellow, 18, 21, 27, 187, 216, 217,

ebony, 129, 130, ^57
€cru, 28
eosin, 28, 103,

235, 391

genetic
lOJf,

246. 337

eyeless, 187, 421, 422

and

cytological

over in, 205, 206

gynandromorphs in, 497

crossing

Subject Index
Drosophila melanoga^ter (continued)
haplo-IV, 415, 416
heterochromatin in, 222, 223

mutations in, 236, 244, 245
no crossing over in male, 152, 154,
213

162, 167, 186,

in, 425,

Drosophila

4^6

number of chromosomes in, 6, 26,
139, 147, 187, 424

number of genes in, 16, 17, 147
number of linkage groups in, 187,

222

in,

intersexes in, 485

miniature, 237, 239, 240, 337

number of chromosomes in, 187
number of linkage groups in, 187
Drosophila ivillistoni, number of
chromosomes in, 187
number of linkage groups in. 187
Duodecaploid, 467
Duplex, 448, 461, 462
Duplicate
genes,
330 ff.,

189

342 ff.,

353 ff., 371, 372, 385. 461. 464

map of, 187

partial linkage

salivary

heterochromatin

virilis,

mutable genes in, 237, 239

inheritance of sex in, 68, 69
lethal

nondisjunction

583

chromosomes,

gland

75, 77,

74,

398

Duplicate determiners, 354
Duplication, 209, 210, 264 ff., 394 ff.,
414

spacing of genes on chromosomes,

Ear-to-row method of selection, 378,

193

spontaneous mutation in, 241

379

superfemale, 249

Echinoderms, 523
Ectoderm. 302
Egg, 48. 49. 51, 66. 67, 68, 70. 78. 149,

transplantation of tissues, 309
triplo-IV, 416, 421

triplo-X, 424

503. 504, 513

triploid intersexes in, 482, 493, 496

wild

type,

17,

24fif.,

148,

231,

96.

187,

chromosome,
189 £f.,

68 ff.,

Y chromosome, 68

189, 481

ff.,

obscura,

number

of

chromosomes in, 187
number of linkage groups in, 187
hetero-

chromatin in, 223

Embryophyta, 503, 504
Endoderm, 302
Endosperm, 52, 390, 438,

with

D. miranda,

524
inversions in, 402

445. 514

abnormal in Iwbrids, 443, 444, 445,

intersexes in, 486

524, 525

as

barrier

to

hybridization,

444,

Environment, crossing over and, 167
effect of on development, 304
effect on gene mutation, 240, 241,
effect

number of chromosomes in, 187
number of linkage groups in, 187
simulans,

442-

243

intersexes in, 486, 496

matin in, 222

440,

524, 525

heterosis in, 386, 387

Drosophila

in

Embryo, culture of, 524, 525

Drosophila pallidipennis, 223

Drosophila pseudoobscura,

hybridization

chromosomes

Embryo sac, 51, 52, 392, 442, 541

196, 245 ff., 481, 506

Drosophila miranda, 524

Drosophila

of

Sciara, 489, 490, 491. 492

Elodea canadensis, 73

307 ff., 335

X

Elimination

heterochro-

on quantitative characters,

376
effect

on sex

potentialities,

494,

495, 510, 511

importance
isolating

of,

30-32, 231, 301

mechanisms and, 519

Subject Index

584

Environment (continued)
plant and animal breeding and,

Fowl (continued)

comb shape in, 321
effect of colchicine on, 476,

377, 381
differences, 225

Environmental

Enzyme, 305 ff., 306, 323,

frizzle, 22,

dominant gene, 321,

.

inhibiting genes in, 325, 326

dominant and recessive genes,

number of chromosomes in, 99
Plymouth Rock, 325
Rhode Island Red, 99

325, 326, 328

sex reversal

322
of a recessive gene, 323
of

23

incomplete dominance in, 87
inherited tremor in, 33, 34

324, 328

Ephestia, 309
Epistasis, of a

477

in,

494

White Leghorn, 325

of polygenes, 358

Equation division. 65, 72

Fragaria, flower color in, 462

Equator, 9, 10, 59. 63
Equatorial plate, 9, 10, 11, 64

Fragaria bracteata, 462, 463

Erythroblastosis

foetalis,

292.

hybrid in, 462, 463
293,

Fragaria collina, 463
Fragaria elatior, 73, 505

295

Euchromatin,

71,

77,

220, 221, 232,

Fragaria vesca rosea, 462, 463

Fragments, chromosomal,

267, 411

Euchromosomes, 487

190,

394,

442, 509

Frequency curve, 348, 351

Euploid, 433 ff.

Eurycea bisUneata,
Evening primrose, see Oenothera

Fritillaria pudica, 221,

Evolution. 25, 516, 531
amphidiploids and, 457

Funaria hygrometrica, 542
Funaria mediterranea, 542

triploids in,

442

222

Frogs, 442

autopolyploidy and, 453

chromosome aberrations and, 390,

Galeopsis pubescens, 458
Galeopsis speciosa, 458

402, 404

temperature on, 263, 264
gene frequencies and, 539
Evolution in wheat, 465, 4(^6
effect of

Galeopsis Tetrahit, 458, 464

Gamete,

47,

50, 51, 66, 82. 83.

Gametic elimination, 275
Gametophyte, 50, 434, 438, 480, 502,

Expressivity, 32 ff., 511

503, 504, 514

Fi generation, 83
Fo generation, 83

chromosomal deficiencies and, 391,
392, 415

Factors, 16

Feeble-mindedness, 293

effect of

Fertilization, 48, 66, 67, 480

extra

Fish, character index in, 528

mutation on, 233

chromosomes and, 419, 421,

422

inheritance of sex in, 70, 481, 483

Gamma raj^s, 260

mechanisms in,

Gasteria, 61, 62

isolating

522, 523

Gene, 5, 6, 14, 16, 17, 77
complementary, 228, 326, 327, 328,

Fluctuations, 225, 357

Four o'clock, 80, 86, 346, 540
Fowl, barred Plymouth Rock,

98,

329, 335, 499, 500, 501

contributing,

99
blue Andalusian, 87

breeding

127.

138, 480, 502, 503, 504, 517, 518

for

egg production

380, 381, 382

342,

346,

347,

351,

371
in,

cumulative, 331, 332, 343, 345, 353.
354, 357, 358, 371, 372, 385

Subject Index

Genome,

Gene (continued)
duplicate, 330 ff, 342

371, 372,

fit".,

epistatic, 321 ff.

482,

485,

493,

498, 506

353, 414, 415, 419.

27,

440,

457,

456,

Genotype, 20, 511
Genotypic ratio, 83,
137,

458,

460,

139,

127,

128,

129,

157

140,

Germ cells, 47, 225, 489
Germ layers, identified in chromo-

for sex, 511, 512

Habrobracon. 498 ff,

somal chimeras, 478

for size, 342 ff ,, 367 ff
inhibiting, 325, 326, 327

location of on chromosomes, 171,

Germ line, 489, 491
German method of breeding, 378
Golgi apparatus, 5

202

male-tendency, 482, 484, 485, 493,

Goodness of fit,

135, 142

Grafting, 141, 235

506, 509

mutable, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240,
241, 259, 269
of, 219, 220, 230,

in,

374

in, 452,

4^3

Grass, inbreeding

modifying, 33, 336, 337, 354

nature

26,

deficient, 390, 414

environment on, 304

of

female-tendency,

in

433,

462, 463, 465, 502

385
effect

585

305

neutral, 342, 346, 371
plural, 354, 355

polymeric, 346, 347, 348, 349, 351,
353, 354, 357

polyploids

Grasshoppers, 69

Grouse locust, 403
Growth, 311, 314, 315, 316, 357
Guinea pigs, 114, 115, 165, 323, 373
Gynander, 496, 497, 498, 501
Gynandroid males, 501
Gynandromorphs, 496, 497, 498

reaction of with cytoplasm, 304,
306, 318

Habrobracon, 67, 246, 260

salivary gland bands and, 77
size of,

fused, 499, 500

16, 224

gynanders in, 497, 501
gynandroid males, 501

suppressor of sex genes, 485

Gene action, 30-34, 301 ff,, 306
Gene frequencies, 537-540'
Gene interaction, 23-26, 304, 320 ff.,

sex determination

sex linkage

342 ff.

Gene mutations, 227, 230, 235. 531,
533, 538, 539
effect of environment on, 240, 241,

243, 263

frequency

of, 235,

of,

243,

244,

245.

246,

248,

249,

250,

251,

252,

236

Half mutants, 537
Haplo-IV, 415, 416
Haploid number of

498, 499

500

chromosomes,

63

Haploid, size

253, 260, 267, 268

in,

in, 499,

triploid of, 450

49,

induction
S47,

lemon lethal, 247
lethals in, 253

in, 449,

451

Haploids, 433 ff.
in animals, 437, 438, 439
in insects, 434

Gene string, 14, 75
Gene symbols, 20, 21, 148

weakness of, 435
Hapten, 307

General index, 528
Generative nucleus or cell, 51

Hardj-Weinberg law, 539
Heat, effect on crossing over, 167

Genetics,

Height, inheritance of in plants, 343,

1

Genie balance, 419, 421

344, 345, 374, 375, 384

Subject Index

586

Human beings {continued)

Hemp, 510
Hermaphrodites,

66,

486,

495,

496,

502, 507, 508, 509

Heterochromatin,

71,

77,

203,

220,

267, 411

cold treatment and, 221, 222, 224
in Drosophila spp., 222, 223

Heterochromosomes, 487
Heterogametic sex, 154,

epidermolysis bullosa, 198, 199
eye, abnormalities of, 42, 43. 101

eye color, 42, 43
fingerprint pattern, 101, 102
fingers

233,

483,

486, 487, 506, 513

Heteromorphic

dwarfism, 40
ear, abnormalities of, 43, 104

41,

134,

Heteropycnosis, 486, 487, 488, 489
Heterosis, 384 ff., 537

m maize, 368, 384, 387

102,

104,

130,

hair, 39

130, 131
hemophilia, 100, 101

hemorrhagic diathesis, 198, 199
high degree of heterozygosity in,
140

vigor,

385

incomplete

20, 82. 83, 85, 87,

88, 139, 140-142, 517

Hexaploid, 433, 463, 464, 466, 467,
471

196,

in,

insanity, 37, 38

linkage groups

true-breeding, 428, 537

linkage

sex

198

197,
19,

90,

hemangioma,

203, 205, 506

Heterozygote,

89,

131, 346

chromosomes,

Heterotypic division, 66
Heterozygosity and hj^brid

and toes, abnormalities of,

40,

in.

195.

196

microphthalmus, 101
M-N blood types, 290, 291
muscular atrophy. 101

Hexavalent configuration, 4^3
Histogram, 344, 526, 527

number of chromosomes in, 6. 48.

Homeotypic division, 66
Homologue, 11, 17, 81, 125, 126

psychological characters. 45. 199

night blindness, 198, 199

69,

pairing of, 52, 53, 76, 148

Homozygote,

retinitis

19, 20, 82, 83, 85, 86,

88, 139

371, 372, 384, 387

pigmentosa, 198, 199

Rh blood types. 289, 291, 292. 293,
sex inheritance in, 69, 109. 481
sex-linked genes in, 99-101

Hordeum jubatum, 525
Hordeum vulgare, 435

skeleton, abnormalities of, 39. 40
skin, abnormalities of, 39, 44, 101,

Hormones, 22, 307, 308, 309, 310, 311,
494, 495

104, 198

skin color, 38, 39

Horses, 382

smell, 44

beings,

A-B blood groups

in, 284, 286, 287, 288, 289,

290

bleeding from the nose in, 44, 198,
199

characters

196

294, 295, 296, 297, 298

Homozygous lines, establishment of,

Human

140,

spasms, 199
spastic paraplegia, 198, 199

streblomicrodactyly, 41, 102
susceptibility to poliomj'elitis, 32,

in,

37-46, 198

color bHndness in, 99, 100, 198, 199

Daltonism, 99,

100, 198

44
taste, 43

teeth, abnormalities of, 43, 101

deafness, 43, 198

xeroderma pigmentosum,

Dihybrids in,

Y chromosome inheritance in, 104

130, 131

diseases in, 44, 45

distribution of genes in, 89, 90

Humulus japonicus, 505
Humulus Lupulus, 505

198,

199

Subject Index
Hj^brid corn, 378, 387

587

Interaction

Hybrid embryos, culture of, 524. 525
Hybrid index, 528. 529, 530
Hybrid swarm, 518. 519, 521, 523,
524, 526, 527, 536

genes,

of

23-26,

304,

320 ff., 342 ff.
Interference, 179
Interkinesis, 62, 63

Intersexes, 482 ff., 493, 497, 513

Hybrid vigor, 384. 385. 388
Hybrids, abnormal development of
endosperm in, 443, 444, 445
chromosomal, 518
gene, 517

Introgressive hybridization, 526, 528
Inversion,

as

crossover

suppressor,

168, 252, 255

crossing over within, 397, 398, 399,
400, 402

384

independent, included, and overlapping, 402

intergeneric, 459, 4^0, 4^1

pairing in at meiosis. 55, 193, 194.

in cattle, 382
in maize.

interspecific, 517, 530. 531, 532. 533

in Tradescantia, 400, 519, 520, 525,
526, 527, 528

397 ff., 398, 399, 414

X-rays and, 394, 399
Iris, 10, 520, 521,

525

intraspecific. 517

Isolating mechanisms, 516. 518. 519

mendelian, 517. 518

Isolation, ecological, 519, 522

sterility of, 456. 459, 467, 531, 532

introgressive,

Hj'bridization,

526,

528

gamete-incompatibility, 523

gene-cytoplasm. 523
geographic. 519

Hypostatic genes, 321

hybrid lethality, 523
hybrid sterility, 524, 531, 533

Imperfect flowers, 503, 510
Inbreeding, 367 ff., 539

mechanical, 522
psychological, 522, 524

beneficial effects of, 368, 369

seasonal, 521, 522

harmful

sexual, 522

effects of, 367, 373

in animals, 373

Karyokinesis, 6

in maize, 367, 384, 387
87.

Karyolymph, 6

88, 130, 131, 332, 336, 343, 344,

Karv'osome, 486

Incomplete dominance,

22.

86.

Karyotype, 532, 533

345, 353, 357, 358, 371, 372

Incomplete sex linkage, 95, 106
in man, 196, 197
Independent assortment,
126,

137,

139,

147,

law

Kinetochore, 7, 125

of,

166

Independent events, probability of
occurrence

Index

of,

frequencies

Kynurenic acid, 308
Kynurenin, 308, 309

110.

179

for

comparing

populations, 525, 526, 527, 528,
529, 530, 531

Indole-3-acetic acid, 478

Inert regions, 190, 192, 220, 267

Lagging at meiosis, 416, 442
Lampbrush chromosomes, 78
Lathyrus odoratus, round vs. long
pollen, 163

number of chromosomes in, 187
number of linkage groups in, 187
purple flowers, 163, 326, 327, 328

Inhibiting genes, 325, 326, 327

Leptotene, 53, 54, 64

Insanity, heredity of, 37, 38

Lethals, 101, 200, 231, 245, 250-257,
386, 427, 428

Insects, 522

embryology

of,

496, 497

balanced, 534, 536, 537

Subject Index

588

Mapping genes (continued)

Lethals (continued)
deficiencies and, 391, 392, 393, 427,

effect of inert material on, 190, 191

Mass selection, 377, 378

428

chromosomes and, 417
missing chromosomes and, 415, 424

Maternal-line

mutation rate

Matrix,

extra

of,

236,

240,

241,

selection,

244, 245, 246

translocations and, 404

6,

12,

7,

14,

Lily, 17, 525

Megaspore,

Line selection, 377, 378
Linkage, 147, 148, 155, 156, 171
between genes for size and color

Megaspore mother

of flowers, 353

154,

sophila, 173

178, 180, 181, 182, 1S7

chromosome aberrations and, 189,
401, 403

com-

cytological

418,

generations normally haploid,
434

Melandrium album, 73
Melanin pigments, 313
Mesoderm, 302
Metaphase, 7 ff., 8, 13,
60,

62, 72,

127,

16, 54,

58 ff.,

154, 422, 446,

447, 448, 460

Metaphase chromosome map,

pared, 189

incompletely sex-linked genes in

man and, 197
193

salivary gland

51,

503, 504

Micronucleus, 394
Microspore, 51, 63, 502, 503, 504, 510

map and, 192

self-sterility

alleles,

274, 275, 276, 277

Linum usitatissimum, 323
17, 18, 19, 27, 28, 68, 71, 77,

82, 174, 227,

191,

192, 193

Microgametophyte,

metaphase chromosome map and,

Locus,

480

423
in

and heterosis, 385

Linkage groups, 186, 187, ISS
Linkage map, 171, 172, 173, 176, 177,

with

510

51

in aneuploids, 415, 416, 417,

case of in autosomes of Dro-

Linkage

cell,

Meiosis, 49 ff., 54, 60, 62, 68, 71, 72,

Rh blood types and, 297

191, 192,

503, 504

51, 502, 503, 504,

Megasporocyte, 51
Meiocyte, 213

complete, 152, 154, 161, 162

and

75, 76,

Matroclinous males, 425
Maturation divisions, 49

Mean, 350, 359 ff., 361
Megagametophyte, 51,

genetical

58,

15,

Life cycle, 50

259, 260, 261

of size-genes

379,

216

Lethal mutations, 231, 250-257, 258,

first

378,

380, 381

236

Lychnis, 73, 101, 103, 483, 507

Lymantria dispar, 483, 484, 485, 493,
496

Microspore division, 60
Microspore mother cell, 51
Microsporocyte, 51
Mirabilis jalapa, 540, 541

Mitochondria, 3, 4, 540
Mitosis, 6ff.,

8, 48, 52,

Modified ratios, 321

58 ff., 71

ff.

Modifying genes, 336, 337, 354, 513
Mollusks, 522, 523

Maize, see Zea mays

Mammals, 522
Mapping genes on chromosomes,
171 ff., 186, 190

by combined genetical and cytological

methods, 191

Monoecious

plants,

503,

509,

512

Monohybrids, 81, 127, 130
Monoploid, 49, 433

Monosomic, 414 ff., 425, 434
Mos«, 542

510,

Subject Index
Moths, inheritance

of

sex

in,

70,

481, 483, 484, 485

589

Mutations {continued)
sterility,

232

time of occurrence, 234, 238

isolating mechanisms, 523
Mouse, body size in, 355, 356

Mutation rate, 236 ff., 240

coat color of, 278, 323, 336, 355
color genes

and body size, 356

harelip, 35

mechanisms in, 522

isolating

pink eye, 356
short ear, 356
short

36,

tail,

120, 121, 275, 276,

37

alleles, 27, 28, 90, 92,

m,

271 ff.,

162,

105,

103,

278,

Multiple factors, 346, 353, 357
Multivalents and autopoh'ploidy,

length

corolla

275,

in,

349, 350, 351

endosperm in hybrids of, 443, 444
flower color in, 275, 353

466

Mutable genes,

236,

237,

238,

239,

genes on, 241, 269

effect of other

Mutations, 225 ff.

accumulation

of

populations,

in

277
275

Nicotiana alata, 349, 350, 351, 359

Nicotiana Langsdorfjii, 349, 350, 351,

bud, 234, 235
of,

self-fertility in,

self-sterility in, 273, 274,

519, 532, 536

detection

haploids, 437

pollen color in, 275

240, 241

352, 359, 449, 450, 451

249,

250,

251,

252-

Nicotiana Sanderae,

108,

113,

112,

352

257
effect

of

time of

effect

on

viability, 231, 232

Nicotiana sylvestris, 459

origin, 234

Nicotiana sylvestris X N- tomentosa,

gene, 227, 230, 235
of

environment on,

240,

of, 243, 244, 245,

246,

247, 248, 249-257

harmful nature of, 231, 235. 386
induced in Drosophila, 243, 244,
246,

251,

252,

253,

254,

255, 256, 257

induced in Habrobracon, 246, 247,

X N- tomento-

Nicotiana tabacum, 459

Nicotiana tomentosijormis, 459
Nightshade chimeras, 478

Nonchromosomal

inheritance,

540-

542

Nonconjugation, 424
Nondisjunction, 423 fif., 498
somatic, 429, 430

253

induced in plants, 243, 244, 247,
248
lethal, 231, 250-257, 258, 259, 260,

261

nature of effects

477
Nicotiana sylvestris
siformis, 477

241, 243, 258, 260, 263

induction

245,

Neutral gene, 342, 346, 371
Neutrons, 260, 261
Newt, see Triton and Triturus
Nicotiana,

283 fif., 498-501

effect

430

Neurospora, 314

Mule, 388
Multiple

Natural polyploids, 471
Natural selection, 235, 236, 264, 386
Nectarine, 235
Nemesia strumosa, 35, 113, 116, 117,

of, 230,

recessive nature of,

231

232, 233

Nucleus,

3,

4

Nuclear membrane, 3 ff., 4> 58 ff.
Nuclear sap, 6, 9
Nuclear stains, 220, 221
Nucleic acid, 76, 77, 220, 221, 222,
267, 306

reverse, 239, 245

Nucleolus, 4, 6, 7,

somatic, 233, 235, 374

Nucleolus-organizing region, 216

12, 58. 62, 63,

125

Subject Index

590
Nucleoprotein, 305, 306

Oocytes, 49, 65, 149, 152

Nulliplex, 448

Ootids, 503, 504

Nullosomic, 437

Oppositional factor hypothesis, 272

Octoploids, 433, 449, 450, 451, 463,

Outbreeding, 367

Orange, 235
Outcross, 367, 512

467, 471, 475, 477

Oenothera,

chromosome

circles

in,

Overlapping phenotypes, 376

536

complexes

in,

4^7,

428, 4^9,

534,

535, 536, 537, 541

double flowered, 226
evolution in, 533-537

Pi generation, 83
Pachytene, 54, 55 ff.,

148,

56,

152,

418
Pairing of chromosomes, at meiosis,
52, 53, 64, 414 ff., 491

gold-center flower color, 320

induced gene mutation

exactness of, 53, 397

244
lethals in, 427, 428, 534, 536
mut. brevistylis, 226, 228
in,

failure of, 471, 524

heterozygous for a

mut. bullata, 80, 161, 163, 346
mut. conjusa, 226
mut. funifolia, 240
mut. pannosa, 244
mut. pollicata, 228
mut. substella, 226
mut. sulfurea, 320
mut. supplena, 226, 227, 228
mut. vetaurea, 161, 163, 320
mutation rate in, 240

deletion,

55,

193, 194, 393

heterozygous for an inversion, 55,
193, 194, 397 ff., 398, 399, 414

heterozygous

a

for

translocation,

reciprocal

404,

405,

406,

407
in a haploid, 434, 435
in a monosomic, 415
in a trisomic, 417, 423
in an allotetraploid, 458, 4^0, 461

number of chromosomes in, 534

in an autotetraploid, 445, 44^, 44^

old-gold flower color, 161, 163, 320

in an autotriploid, 441, 442. 463

"outside-in" flower, 226, 22S

nondisjunction and, 425

reciprocal

translocations

in,

405,

without chiasmata, 213, 214. 215
of
induction

Paradichlorbenzene.

534

polyploids by, 4^4

short-styled, 226

Paris, 220, 221, 224

sulfur flower color, 320

Oenothera Hookeri, 541
Oenothera Lamarckiana, flower

Parthenogenesis, 67, 502
of,

Patroclinous males, 425

Pattern

226, 320

mutations in, 225

of

development, 302, 304,

318

nondisjunction in, 425, 4^8, 4^9
pistil of, 228

Pea, 6, 20

plastids in, 541

Pedigree, 381

rosette of, 244

Pedigree

organensis,

culture

method,

37,

540

trisomies, 428, 429

Oenothera

Peach, 235

self-sterility

alleles in, 277

Olfersia bisulcata, chromosome pair-

ing in, 214, 215

Penetrance, 32-34
Pentaploid, 433, 452, 453
Pentstemon, 466, 467

Pepper, haploids in, 435. 436

Oligogenic characters, 357, 358

Perfect flowers, 502

Onion, see Allium

Peromyscus, 522, 523

196,

Subject Index
Phaseolus vulgaris, 323, 324
Phenotype, 20
Phenotypic ratio, 83, 128, 129,

137,

139, 140, 157

591

Populations {continued)
gene frequencies in, 537-540
heterozygous, 140, 141, 142

Phleum pratense, 435, 466

in equilibrium, 539
Portulaca grandiflora, 258, 259

Phoradendron flavescens var. macro-

Position

phyllum, 505

effect,

264,

265,

266,

267,

395, 401, 518

Phoradendron villosum, 505

Postheterokinesis, 72

Fowl
and absence

Phrynotettix, 487

Poultry, see

Pine, hybrid vigor in, 388

Presence

Pinus Thunhergiana, 440

105

hypothesis,

Pistillate flowers, 503

Prime types in Datura, 407, 408, 409

Plant breeding, 85, 86, 141, 142, 235,

Primula, 332, 333, 334, 335, 458

367 ff., 437

Probability, 86, 108 ff ., 179

Plasmagene, 306

of occurrence, 120, 135

Plasma membrane, 3, 5, 12

Probable

Plastids, 3, 540, 541, 542

error,

117,

361,

359,

363.

364

Platypoecilus xiphidium, 483
Plural determiners, 354, 355, 357

Prochromosomes, 223, 224, 492
Progeny test, 377, 382
Prometaphase, 7, 9, 58

Poa pratensis, 435

Prophase, 7 ff.,

Pleitropy, 21-23

Point mutation, 227
Polar body, 49, 149, 424. 425. 426
Polar nuclei, 52, 442, 443

8,

13,

52 ff., 72,

16,

75, 221

392.

421.

540,

6. 305, 306
Protenor type of sex inheritance, 69
Protoplasm, 2
Pure line, 371, 374, 378, 387
Pycnotic chromosomes, 476

growth rate

of.

272,

Quadrivalent configuration, 204, 445.

Polarized chromosomes, 53

Pollen grain, 51, 60, 392. 540

Pollen tube, 51,

52,

Proteins,

541
differential

446, 447, 448, 449, 453, 459, 462

277

Polygamous plants. 503

Quadruplex, 448, 462

Polygenes, 344, 34S, 372
Polygenic characters. 357. 358

Qualitative characters, 346

Polyhybrids, 139, 140, 141, 142

Quantitative

Quantitative characters, 342 ff

Polymeric genes. 346, 347, 348, 349,

effect

at

hairy

Quinquevalent configurations, 453

351, 353, 354, 357

Polymery, 343 ff.
Polypeptid fibers. 77

Rabbits, blood groups in, 283, 290

body size in, 355

Polyploids, 330, 353, 354, 433 ff.

355

evolution and, 453, 531, 533

coat color

methods of inducing, 471
monosomies in, 415

effect of colchicine on, 476

264,

deletions and, 194
351,

359 ff.,

386,

387
cies,

gene mutations and, 241, 243, 251,
252,

comparison of by index frequen525,

530, 531

of, 278, 313,

Radiation, action of on genes, 267 ff

origin of, 470 ff.

Populations,

wing

locus, 266, 267

526,

527,

528.

529,

253,

254,

255,

268, 269

translocations and, 191

Radish, 459

263,

267,

Subject Index

592

Reciprocal translocation (continued)

Radish-cabbage hybrid, 459

Radium, mutations and,

241,

243,

reciprocal translocations and, 203

Range, 362
Raphanobrassica, 459
Ratios,

1

83, 84, 86, 87, 128, 406, 537

1,

:

4:1, 448, 462
6

8

15

:

20

:

18

:

8

15

:

:

:

6

3

322

1

1,

:

:

3

:

4,

323, 324, S29

9

:

6

:

1,

331

9

:

:

3,

326, 327

15

:

1,

330 ff., 460, 461

27

:

9

27

:

31,

35

:

1,

63

:

1, 335

81

:

175, 335

255

:

3

:

3

:

156,

157,

158,

161, 162, 166, 178

393,

394,

395,

:

1,

Rumex, 73, 505, 506

iS7

Rye, haploids in, 437

number of chromosomes in, 11
R3'e-barley hybrids, sterility of, 444,

445

Rye-wheat hybrids,

335

Ratios, genetic,

Salamanders, 442, 472
Salivary gland chromosome map,
compared with genetic and
metaphase maps, 192

425, 426

in autotetraploids, 448, 462
in trisomies, 421, 4^2
Recessive genes, 19, 20, 105

construction

Reciprocal cross, 88, 89, 96, 130, 134,
152, 273, 276, 277

203,

204,

423,

425,

532,

403,

533

and chromosome

of,

193, 194

Salivary gland chromosomes, 74-78,
192, 193, 194, 251,

translocation,
264,

459, 460

and nondisjunction,

in allopolyploids, 460

205,

155,

Riidbeckia hirta, 328, 329, 330
3

335

Reciprocal

154,

Rosa, 468

449, 462

1,

513,

396

13

9

66,

vegetative, 66. 141, 142, 235, 374,

Ring chromosomes,

1, 321, 329

3

:

47,

295, 296, 297, 298

326, 327, 328, 329

:

9

72

Rhoeo discolor, 405, 406, 472

12

:

56

Rhesus blood types, 289, 291 ff., 294,

163, 320

9

:

49, 65,

coils, 55,

Repulsion,

3:3: 1, 127, 128, 129, 130, 136,

7,

Reduction division,
Relational

441, 453, 513

158

1, 421, 422, 449

157,

150,

.,

171 ff., 206, 226

sexual, 47-52, 68 ff., 480 ff., 513

83, 84, 128, 135, 161, 319, 320
:

405,

404,

in,

Relic coils, 15, 53, 75, 393

462

1,

161, 162, 186,

1,

:

1,

meiosis

at

Repeat, 395
Reproduction, asexual,
514

342

1,

:

1,422
1

pairing

Relative growth, 315, 316

4:6:4:1, 332, 342
:

meiotic

first

Recombinations of genes, 149 ff

1:1:1, 132, 133, 172
2

at

406, 407

84, 85, 135, 165, 421

I,

:

configurations

metaphase, 406, 407, 408, 409

244, 245, 248, 268

in, 220,

circles, 406, 407,

408, 409, 427, 428, 429, 534

397

and bar locus, 209, 210
euchromatin and heterochromatin
224

heterozygous for an
inversion, 398

pairing in

and nondisjunction, 425, 427, 428,

Sample,

429
and X-rays, 404

Satellite, 10

if

121, 359, 363

Sciara, 78, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492

Subject Index
Sex

Secale cereale, 525

Secondary association, 468, 469
Segmental interchange, 203
Segregation, law of, 82

Sex reversal, 483, 484, 494
Sheep, Cotswold, 90

spontaneous

le-

Dorset, 87, 88, 90, 91, 92

382, 383

of

240, 261

381,

379,

thals by, 255

horns in, 87, 90, 91, 92

isolation of biotypes by, 379

Merino, 90, 91, 92

within pure

multiple alleles

Self-fertility,

lines,

106,

XY and XO types, 95, 97, 98
ZW and ZO types, 98, 99

380,

378,

95,

Sex-linked lethals, mutation rate of,

and plant and animal breeding,

elimination

incomplete,

in plants, 101-103

Selection, 367 ff., 538, 539

377,

linkage,
196, 197

of genes in autotetraploids, 448

376,

593

371

277

Rambouillet,

Self-fertilization, 66, 85, 86, 368, 369,

in,

90, 91, 92

90, 91

Shropshire, 90

Southdown, 90

371
Self-incompatibility, 271, 272

Suffolk, 88, 90

Self-sterility, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275,

Silkworm,

failure

mation

276, 277

with

Self-sterility alleles, linkage of

in

of

chiasma

females,

154,

for167,

213

other genes, 274, 275, 276, 277,

Simplex, 448, 462

353

Single nature of chromosomes, 52,

Semi-sterile plants, 406, 407,

IfOS

53

Setcreasia brevifolia, 448

Size, in polyploids, 449, 450, 4-51

Sex chromosomes, 68 ff., 513

Size genes, 342 ff., 367 ff.

heteropycnosis of, 486, 487, JfS8
ratio

of

autosomes, 482, 483,

to

506, 507

Snail, 318, 319, 523

Snapdragon, 323. 450
Solenobia, tetraploids of, 450

Sex inheritance, 68 ff.. 480 ff.
attached-X stocks, 249, 483
balance theory of, 481-485,

486,

493

Soma, 225, 489. 503, 504
Somatic cros.sing over. 216, 217, 235
Somatic mutation, 233, 235, 238,
258, 259, 374

female-determining substance, 484,
493

hormones and, 494, 495
importance of environment

Somatic nondisjunction, 429, 430
Somatic pairing in Diptera, 214,
216

on,

Somatoplastic

sterility.

525

Sorghum, haploids, 435, 437

495
in plants, 73, 502-514

Spartina, 457, 458

male-determining substance, 484,

Speciation, 227, 530, 531, 533

493

Species concept, 516, 517, 526, 528

potentialities for either sex, 493

Sperm, inactivated, 253

probability of a male,

Sperm nucleus. 51, 52, 442, 443

109,

110,

Spermatids, 49, 503, 504

111

sex-gene suppressors, 485
strong and

weak races, 484

XO type, 69, 70, 134, 481, 505
XY type, 68, 69, 481, 505, 506
ZW type, 69, 70, 481, 505

Spermatocytes,

49, 65, 72,

434, 486,

491

Spermatozoon, 48, 49, 66, 68, 69. 70,
434, 503, 504

Spiders, 522, 523

594

Subject Index

Spindle,

12,

9,

13,

59,

63.

64,

317,

318, 471, 474, 476

Spore. 50, 480, 502, 503. 504
502.

480,

52,

50,

503,

504, 513, 514

mutation on, 233

effect of

Sports, 226, 235

Spruce budworm, 487, 4SS
Squash, 315, 321, 325
Staminate flowers, 503

Standard deviation,

115,

165,

Thuja orientalis, 44^
Tobacco, see Nicotiana
Tomatoes, autotetraploid, 448
chimeras in, 478
haploids

361,

114-117.

IIS,

135,

361,

363.

364,

359,

166,

in, 437,

529

Tradescantia, deficiencies

constants, 358 ff

in,

393

X-rays on, 401

hybridization in, 519, 520, 525, 526,
527, 528

tetraploids

Statistical

477

Trabant, 10
350,

effect of

error,

445

sterility of,

selection in, 383

362, 364

Standard

445-454,

442,

433,

Tetrasomic, 430, 445, 449
Three-point cross, 178, 180

fibers, 9

Sporophyte,

353,

470, 471. 475

Spindle fiber attachment point, 7
Spindle

Tetraploid,

in, 4A8,

471

triploids in, 44^, 471

Sterility, of haploids, 434. 437

Tradescantia hracteata, 441, 442. 528

of hybrids, 456, 459, 467, 524, 531,

532
of tetraploids, 445

Tradescantia canaliculata, 400, 453.
471, 519, 520, 526, 527, 528
Tradescantia gigantea, 401

of triploids, 441, 453

Tradescantia hirsutiflora, 471

Stomata, size of in poh''ploids, 450
Streptocarpus, 312, 313

Tradescantia occidentalis, 453, 454.
528

Subspecies, 517

Tradescantia paludosa, 60, 61, 400,
471

Suckers, 529, 530

Superfemale, 249, 482, 498. 506

Tradescantia subaspera var, typica,

Supermale, 482
Sweet pea, see Lathyrus odoratus

Tradescantia

519, 520

Swine, 368
Synapsis, 53, 202

189,

190,

191,

193,

195,

196,

264,

267,

353,

Transplantation, 309
7,

12,

8,

13,

14,

53,

15,

Trichoniscus elisahethae, 450

54, 62, 63, 64, 7B, 220. 221

Temperature, and induction of polyploids, 471

and mutation

Trihybrids, 136 ff., 142
Trillium, 14, 220, 221, 224

Tnmerotropis suffusa, 126
rate, 240, 241, 243,

254,

255,

258,

^Z59,

263,

Terminalization

of

chiasmata,

58,

264

59,

448,

354, 402, 403, 414

Telomere, 391

251,

447,

Translocations,
194,

Telophase,

virginiana,

526, 527

Triplex, 448, 462

Triploid, 390, 4OO, 433, 440-442, 470,
471, 472, 473

417,

423,

445, 446, 447

and sex, 482
in Fritillaria pudica, 222

Testcross, 85, 86, 132, 133, 139, 150,

size in, 449, 450, 451

176

sterility of, 441, 442

154, 157,

Tetrad, 57
Tetrahybrids, 140

vigor of, 440
Triplo-IV, 416. 421

Subject Index

Unstable genes (continued)
effect of other genes on, 241, 259

Triplo-X, 424

Trisomic

4^2

ratios, 421,

595

Trisomies,

416,

417,

418,

419,

420,

421,

422,

423,

424,

425,

426,

Uvularia, 528

Vacuole, 3, 4

428, 429, 430, 442

primary, 423, 440
secondary, 423, 429

Variation, 362, 516

tertiary, 423

Vegetative propagation, 66, 141, 142,

within inbred

awn t^'pes of, 322

color of fruit of, 331, 336, 342, 464
interspecific crosses in, 465

number of chromosomes in,

11

stomatal size in polyploids of, 450

Triticum X Aegilops

hybrid,

370

235
Vitamin, 305, 314

Triticale, 459, 4^0

Triticum,

lines, 369,

461,

W chromosome,

69, 70, 481, 483, 484

Wasp, 67. 502
Wheat, see Triticum
Wheat-rye hybrids, 459, 460

465

X chromosome, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73,

Triticum compactum, 464
Triticum dicoccoides, 464

77, 134, 154, 481, 482, 483, 496,

Tnticum dicoccum, 464
Tnticum durum, 464

behavior of at meiosis,

497, 505, 506, 507, 508, 509
71,

72

Triticum vionococcum, 435, 464, 465

deficiencies in, 391

Triticum, persicum,, 464

elimination of in Sciara, 489, 490,

Triticum polonicum, 464
Triticum spelta, 464

491, 492
genes on, 70,

Triticum turgidum, 464, 465

heterochromatin

Triticum vulgare, 435, 437, 464
Triton taeniatu^s, 437, 4'^2

heteropgenosis

95, 96

nondisjunction

Triturus viridescens, 442, 450, 472

ratio

configuration,
4^2,

486, 487,

254

Trituru^ pyrrhogaster, 438, 4^5, 4^2

419,

222, 223

488
induced lethal mutations in, 251-

Triturus sim,ilans, 4'^

Trivalent

in,

of,

437,

441,

417,
446,

4^8,

447,

of, 424, 426,

498

Y chromosome, 507,

to

508

Xenia, 443
X-rays.

453, 459, 463, 467, 468

of

14, 27, 77,

191, 471

and deficiencies, 392, 393, 394, 395
and inversions, 394, 399
and mutations, 241. 243, 244, 245,

Tropaeolum, 317, 318
Tryptophane, 308, 309

Tube nucleus or cell, 51, 52

248, 260, 268, 314

Ultraviolet light and mutation rate,
241, 260, 261

Unit characters, 23-26

chromosome,

415.

416,

417,

423,

434,

436,

437,

441,

442,

453,

456,

459,

460,

462,

463, 465, 471, 477

Unstable genes, 236, 239, 240, 241,
259

404

and translocations, 403
breaking chromosomes by, 219
effect of on crossing over, 167

Unisexual flowers, 503

Univalent

and reciprocal translocations, 203,

relation

of

dosage to mutations,

244, 245, 268

Y chromosome, 68, 69, 70, 71, 73, 77,
154.

481,

508, 509

483,

505,

506.

507,

Subject Index

596

Y chromosome {continued)

Zea mays, genes {continued)
512

behavior of at meiosis, 71

silkless, 188,

deficiencies in, 391

tassel seed, 188, 511

genes on,

heterochromatin
ratio

of

virescent, 136, 175, 176, 177, 178,

196

70, 95,

179, 188, 542

223

in,

X chromosome, 507,

to

oOS

Y chromosome genes, dominance of,

waxy, 188, 203, 204, 236
yellow endosperm, 188, 443
genes for sex in, 511, 512
genetic

105

Y chromosome inheritance, 95, 104,

and

cytological

crossing

over in, 203, 204
haploids, 437

105

heterosis in, 368, 384, 387

Z

chromosome, 69, 70, 481, 483, 484

Zea mays, B-type chromosomes in,

induction of polyploids

chromosomal chimeras in, 416
chromosomes in, 124, 125

26, 140, 187

number of genes in, 16
number of linkage groups in, 187

dent, 81
dioecious, 512

partial linkage

SI

genes, anthocyanin, 154, 155, 157,
164.

166,

188, 280, 320

brown midrib. 175, 176, 177, 178,

188,

aleurone,
203,

204,

156,

236,

175 ff.,

237,

259,

pop, 81
reciprocal translocation in, 203

semi-sterile, 406, 408

sex determination in, 510, 511, 512
sex reversal

279, 280, 327, 329

crinkly leaves, 124, 127, 128, 129,

in, 510,

511

sugary (sweet), 81, 329, 443
sun-red, 30, 31

132, 133, 166, 188, 320

trisomic, 429

lazy, 309, 310
ligiileless,

map of, 188

pod, 81

selection in, 378, 379

179, 188, 395

colored

univalent

136, 188

in,

416

nana, 166, 188, 311

unstable genes in, 241

pericarp color, 30, 31, 188, 279,

variegated pericarp, 237
xenia

280

pm-ple plant color, 124 ff., 188,

leaf,

in,

443

Zygote, 48, 50, 52, 502, 503, 504, 517,
518

241. 320

ragged

474

in,

number of chromosomes in, 6, 11,

deficiencies in, 392, 393

15S,

388
inbreeding in, 367, 384

411

flint,

hybrid vigor in, 384, 385, 386, 387,

154,

155,

164, 166, 188

shrunken, 156, 188, 329

157,

158,

Zygote lethals, 253, 254, 260
Zygotene, 53. 54, 55, 56, 57,
434

71, 76,

