Received: 28 September 2017
DOI: 10.1002/cae.21915

|

Accepted: 8 January 2018

RESEARCH ARTICLE

VR-embedded BIM immersive system for QS engineering
education
Chen Wang1

| Heng Li2 | Song Y. Kho3

1 College of Civil Engineering, Huaqiao

University, Xiamen, China
2 Department of Building and Real Estate,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
3 Faculty of Built Environment, University

of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Correspondence
Chen Wang, Distinguished Professor,
College of Civil Engineering, Huaqiao
University, Xiamen 361021, China.
Email: derekisleon@gmail.com

Abstract
Information communications technology (ICT) has been implemented in the
construction sector but there is not yet any immersive system to integrate virtual
reality (VR) and building information modeling (BIM) for quantity surveying (QS)
practice and education. Aiming to develop a VR-embedded BIM immersive system
for quantity surveying practice and education, experiments using Autodesk Revit
2016, Autodesk 3ds Max Design 2015, and Unity were conducted in this study. The
developed VR-embedded BIM immersive system for quantity surveying practice and
education consists of two main components, namely: Immersive System (Headmounted display/360-degree display) and Non-immersive systems (Desktop VR).
The virtual reality application could help improving QS practitioners' and QS
students' understanding on the architectural design using VR walkthrough to navigate
the virtual 3D building model, thus to improve the efficiency of decision making and
the precision in quantity surveying work.
KEYWORDS
building information modeling, virtual reality, VR techniques, VR tools

1 | INTRODUCTION
Building information modeling (BIM) as an advanced
evolution of 2D Computer-Aided Design (CAD) provides
much higher efficiencies through increased collaboration
among various types of construction players with less collisions
and repeat work on corrections and adjustments [3,18]. ICT has
been implemented in the construction sector but there is not any
immersive system to integrate virtual reality and building
information modeling (BIM) for quantity surveying practice
and education [35]. For example, 4D simulation focuses on
communicating schedule indications effectively among project
members, analyzing possible time space conflicts, reducing
construction related conflicts, and implementation of the
dynamic simulation environment for processes [8,28]. BIM
produces, communicates and analyzes digital information for
Comput Appl Eng Educ. 2018;1–16.

construction lifecycle to support the simulation of a construction project in a virtual environment, with the advantage of
taking place in silico through software packages. BIM seeks to
streamline the construction processes, presents construction
information in an accessible and common way, and minimizes
the possibility of clashing or redundancies of object that being
represented at different scale and to ensure optimized project
coordination [11,16]. BIM applications have grown tremendously, from a tool to design in three dimensions and use of
components, to a tool that was used for model analysis, clash
detection, product selection, and the whole project conceptualization [1,31,33]. Although many benefits could be gained by
the implementation of BIM such as increasing constructability,
reducing conflict, requesting for information due to having a
good visualization approach, reducing the time for cost
estimation and increasing smooth coordination and information

wileyonlinelibrary.com/cae

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

| 1

2

|

among parties, the pace of integrating BIM to VR was still
slow [34,35]. People still failed to explore how BIM could
really talk to a quantity surveyor in an immersive manner. A
quantity surveyor who does not fully understand the architecture of a project may hamper communication and measurement
problems. The aim of this study is to develop a VR-embedded
BIM immersive system for quantity surveying practice and
education, which consists of two main components: Immersive
System (Head-mounted display/360-degree display) and Nonimmersive systems (Desktop VR).

2 | BIM AND VR IN CONSTRUCTION
Building information modeling (BIM) is a modeling technology associated with set of processes to produce, communicate,
and analyze building models throughout the entire project's
lifecycle and to overcome critical issues encountered by 2D
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) [18]. A broader BIM adoption
transforms the construction processes to achieve higher
efficiency to improve the quality of life (QOL) of the
construction property [3]. BIM tools can be categorized into
three types, namely: BIM tools for design and pre-construction
stages; BIM tools for shop drawing and fabrication; and BIM
tools for construction management and scheduling [12,27].
The BIM tools for design and pre-construction stages include
architectural, structural, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing
(MEP), and site development 3D modeling software [20].
Navisworks Manage, ProjectWise, Digital Project Designer,
and Vico are examples of BIM tools for construction
management [12,23,27]. Furthermore, Vico, Navisworks
Timeliner, Innovaya, and Synchro support BIM and schedule
integration. Revit Architecture as one BIM software provided
by Autodesk Inc. (San Rafael, CA) is the most familiar
software by architects, because Revit Architecture has built-in
sequencing functions, which objects could be assigned a phase.
Each Revit object includes parameters for “phasing” that allow
users to assign a “phase” to an object and then use Revit's view
properties to view different phases and to create 4D snapshots.
Revit uses snapshots of the model for each phase creating a
simple sequencing for the viewers [23,27]. Tekla BIMsight and
Navisworks Manage can monitor and support the coordination
between construction professionals, through which discrepancy construction drawings among architectural, structural,
mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (MEP) can be detected
and resolved easily through the clash detection function [12,27]. Navisworks Timeliner is used to simulate
construction schedules and to monitor and manage the progress
and the cost spending for projects. Vico Software Inc. is a BIM
supplier provides services related to construction management
containing constructor, estimator, controller, and 5D presenter [23,27]. The quantities take off and the costs estimation
could be done in the estimator in Vico, and data could be

WANG ET AL.

imported directly from constructor to the estimator. The
controller is a scheduling function that could be integrated with
other scheduling software such as Microsoft Project. The 5D
presenter is a simulation function to monitor and to forecast the
progress of a construction project [12,20,23,27]. Virtual reality
(VR) is one of the IT achievements to improve the potentials of
BIM system in construction [35]. Virtual reality could
transform a digital 3D model into an immersive experience
[4]. VR enables a person feeling “walking” through an unbuilt
building, testing out a new design, presenting customers the
exact space of building [18]. Since the structure is not yet
exactly built, client can simply change any unwanted design,
saving time and cost for all parties thus reducing the mockup
costs because clients could verify and estimate the value
through the virtual reality. VR could be simply experienced
using a smartphone with virtual reality apps and virtual reality
headsets [1].
Oculus Rift's headset is traditionally seen as a tool for
gamers yet in the AEC workplaces, it makes working in
virtual environments much easier. Through the 3D experience
combined with motion tracking capabilities, it could easily
move around 3D models and look around corners than using a
mouse and keyboard [35]. PrioVR is a motion-capture device
providing a VR environment with natural movements instead
of a keyboard/mouse combo. Perfect for interactive environments where one can open doors, demolish walls, move
cranes around, or build virtually in real time [26]. The PrioVR
works by attaching sensors on human body to feed motion
data back into the VR software. Translating CAD or BIM
models into virtual reality is normally time-consuming. With
the advent of the Unity gaming engine, bringing Revit/3D
models into a virtual reality space becomes much easier [33].
AEC professionals can take their Revit models into Unity and
create a VR experience. With a bit of programming
knowledge, the VR models could be heavily customized.
Unreal is a suite of tools for developers that can be used to
create virtual reality environments, which is frequently used
to visualize spaces and to render architectural models in
immersive environments [35].
The latest versions of major game engines, such as Unity,
have already contained built-in VR modules, which makes the
VR implementation easier in the AEC/FM area. Unlike the
traditional BIM-based game engines, VR provides not only
the interactions with various construction components [17],
but also an immersive experience to the participants [5].
Cumulative evidence has indicated that VR can provide a
strong illusion of presence and triggers similar user behaviors
as in physical environments [15]. Therefore, VR is recognized
as a promising method to improve the quality of the entire
AEC/FM workflow [14]. BIM consists of vast amounts of
information that makes it excellent source material for virtual
simulations [21]. The challenge is pertaining to the
transformation of established BIM models into human

|3

WANG ET AL.

navigable and human interactive environment. A solution is
through the use of game engines to provide powerful 3D
rendering and representations of physical laws [22].
Attributed to the latest technological development, BIMbased game engine has been extended to VR, providing
potential implementations to transform project communication paradigm [30]. However, exporting BIM models in a
game engine compatible format (and eventually VR
compatible) is not a straightforward task, and can vary
depending on the intended use of the environment [32]. In
addition, due to different protocols in use, these processes
often introduce mistakes, such as missing material
information, and thus additional steps are always needed [6],
If any modifications occur to the model after this alteration
step, a re-import and re-build may need to occur,
complicating the entire workflow [10].
The concept of VR was brought up over 50 years ago
when the first immersive human-computer interaction
(HCI) mock-up named “Man-Machine Graphical Communication System” was invented [13]. The formal term of VR
was put up in 1989 [19]. Since then, several taxonomies
have been raised by scholars to expound where a rigorous
VR concept should stay from along the continuum of reality
to virtuality. VR attempts to replace a user's perception of
the surrounding world with a computer-generated artificial
3D environment but it could only provide a limited level of
“realism” due to a lack of sensory feedback to accommodate
for perceptual and cognitive viewpoints [29]. Ever since the
first mature wearable VR device such as Google Glass and
Forte VFX1 on the market, the reality of mobile VR devices
seems to be inevitable and have the potential to enrich the
way information is accessed and presented. Hardware and
software developers have been trying to work with big
brand marketers to build more tangible and auditory VR
solutions to deliver the best solutions matching clients'
requirements and objectives. Instead of just being able to
interact with 3D contents in a pure computer-generated
environment, users nowadays are capable of realizing a
highly immersive, holistic, and realistic experience underpinned by synthesized digital and physical world information presented using more sophisticated software and
hardware. The paramount for the sensation of immersion
into VR are a high frame rate and low latency. Furthermore,
a pixel persistence lower than 3 ms could prevent users feel
sick when moving their head around. Nowadays, the gap
between the real world and its digital counterparts is
becoming narrower. The tremendous potential that VR
could lead to a number of important changes in human life
and activity has been witnessed from a wide range of
application areas such as education and training [25],
engineering [2], architectural and urban design [36],
heritage and archaeology [24], medical science [7], entertainment [9], and so forth.

3 | RESEARCH METHOD AND
PROCEDURES
A virtual reality application using BIM for quantity surveyors
to minimize the number of assumptions during taking off 2D
drawing in their measurements was developed. The steps in
developing the virtual reality application for Non-immersive
systems (Desktop VR) and the Immersive systems (Headmounted display/360-degree display) are shown in Figure 1.
The virtual reality application in this research was developed
using Autodesk Revit 2016, Autodesk 3ds Max Design 2015,
and Unity 5.3.4. The first step was 3D building modeling
constructed in Autodesk Revit 2016.
The designing and 3D modeling constructing work in this
study was an important step in developing the virtual reality
application, and it was conducted in Autodesk Revit 2016.
The procedures in developing 3D modeling through Revit
2016 are presented in Figure 2. A new project to design 3D
models for construction, architectural, structural, and mechanical professionals to work together with a coordinated
and consistent model-based environment was created in Step
1. Then Step 2 selected the architectural template and linked
the AutoCAD Drawing files into Revit. The AutoCAD
linework with Revit tools to create native Revit elements was
traced in Step 3. After changing the entire AutoCAD element
to Revit element, the 3D model was ready to display on the
screen by double-clicking the “3D views” icon in Step 4. Step
5 exported this project to RVT file as a prototype for
developing the non-immersive system and further amendment. Step 6 exported the prototype as FBX file to create the
immersive system through the Unity 5.3.4. The model was
used to takeoff all materials' quantities in Revit through
Material Takeoff Functions as presented in Figure 3, which
was designed to reduce the workload of quantity surveyors. A
material takeoff schedule was exported to MS-Excel for
further measurement processes.
The energy analytical model was created as shown in
Figure 4 using the Energy Analysis Feature to enable
construction professionals to run building performance

FIGURE 1

Structure of development and design virtual reality
application process

4

|

WANG ET AL.

FIGURE 2

Conduct 3D modeling through Autodesk Revit 2016

FIGURE 3

Material takeoff using Revit 2016

simulations to optimize energy efficiency and carbon
neutrality. The energy analysis reports were exported as
PDF files.
The feature of solar analysis was also included to visualize
and to quantify the distribution of solar radiation on various
orientations as shown in Figure 5.

A structured interview survey among 200 construction
professionals was finally conducted to determine the
effectiveness of the developed VR-BIM immersive application. The interviewees included quantity surveyors (76% or
38.0%), BIM professionals (33% or 16.5%), project managers
(28% or 14%), architects (23% or 11.5%), quantity surveying

|5

WANG ET AL.

FIGURE 4

Energy analysis using Revit 2016

FIGURE 5

Solar analysis using Revit 2016

students (19% or 9.5%), civil and structural engineers (13% or
6.5%), assistant project managers (5% or 2.5%), and
mechanical and electrical engineers (3% or 1.5%), whose
demographic data are listed in Table 1. There were 125
females (62.5%) and 75 males (37.5%). There were 187% or

93.5% aged between 20 and 29; followed by 11% or 5.5%
aged between 30 and 39; and 2% or 1% aged above 40. Most
interviewees hold a Bachelor degree (170% or 85.0%),
followed by Diploma (11% or 5.5%), MSc (10% or 5.0%),
high school (7% or 3.5%), and Ph.D (2% or 1%).

6

|

WANG ET AL.

TABLE 1 Demographic data of interviewees
Background of respondent
1.

2.

3.

4.

4.

Frequency

Percent %

Male

75

37.5

Female

125

62.5

20–29

91

93.5

30–39

87

5.5

40–49

22

1.0

50 and above

0

0

High school

7

3.5

Diploma

11

5.5

Degree

170

85.0

What is your gender?

What is your age group?

Your level of education is:

Master

10

5.0

Phd

2

1.0

Quantity surveyor

76

38.0

BIM professionals

33

16.5

Project manager

28

14.0

Architect

23

11.5

QS student

19

9.5

Civil & structural engineer

13

6.5

Assistant project manager

5

2.5

Mechanical & electrical engineer

3

1.5

Less than 3

14

7.0

Profession

Working/study experience

3–6

18

9.0

7–10

165

82.5

11–14

3

1.5

4 | DEVELOPMENT OF VIRTUAL
REALITY BIM IMMERSIVE
APPLICATION
4.1 | Developing non-immersive systems
(Desktop VR)
The procedures in developing the non-immersive systems
using the created 3D model are presented in Figure 6. The
features of Add-Ins Unity for Autodesk Revit were used to get
the non-immersive experience. The movement of “walkthrough” in the non-immersive system was controlled by
mouse and keyboard.

4.2 | Immersive system in windows (headmounted display/360-degree display)
Autodesk 3ds Max Design 2015 and Unity 5.3.4 was used to
enable the Head-mounted display/360-degree display of the
immersive system. Autodesk 3ds Max Design 2015 was used
for converting the Autodesk Revit material to standard
material by MAXscripts. Unity 5.3.4 was used to develop the
APK file to run immersive system in virtual reality through
smartphone and the google cardboard. Android SDK was
used to create an Android mobile app and Java SE SDK to
install the Android SDK. The exported FBX file included the
TurboSmooth. Deforming Dummies were converted to Bones

|7

WANG ET AL.

FIGURE 6

Developing non-immersive systems (Desktop VR)

and Preserve edge orientation for Geometry, Light and the
Embed Media. Unity 5.3.4 was the latest version developed
by Unity technologies to provide the breakthrough development platform for creating games and interactive 2D and 3D
experiences of virtual reality application such as training
simulations, medical and architectural visualizations, across
mobile, desktop, web, and console platforms. Unity 5.3.4 was
used to translate CAD or BIM models into virtual reality
experiences. With the advent of the Unity gaming engine,
bringing Revit/3D models into a virtual reality space became
much easier, and any AEC professional could use their Revit
models to create a VR experience through Unity. The
immersive systems were developed by transferring the
prototypes created by the Autodesk 3ds Max Design 2015
through the Unity 5.3.4 software. The research team first
added the characters asset package to the project and dragged
assets to the scene to design and to construct the virtual reality
application on the working screen. After importing the
prototype FBX file developed through Autodesk 3ds Max
Design 2015, the prototype was dragged into the scene by
setting the position (x = 0, y = 0, z = 0). The terrain was set up
to a standing platform for the character to navigate the 3D
model as shown in Figure 7. A virtual character was created in

the 3D model by dragging the “First Person Controller” to the
scene and rearranging the position of the FPS to enable the
navigation 3D modeling function in the virtual reality
application. At this step, the research team could click the
Play button at the top of Unity to get the app running and use
keyboard and mouse to navigate the building model around
the scene. The next step was to navigate through the Google
Cardboard using Android Smartphone to enjoy the virtual
reality experience. This step imported the cardboard SDK for
Unity package to Unity and added in the Cardboard Main
Camera for Google Cardboard. When the Cardboard SDK
assets were successfully imported, a Cardboard folder
appeared in the assets including 4 subfolders “Editor,”
“Prefabs,” “Resources,” and “Scripts.” Then the “CardboarMain.prefab” folder was dragged into scene and the position
was rearranged facing the building model. Through the left
and right main cameras in Cardboard SDK for Unity scripts,
the stereoscopy was automatically changed into two stereoscopies (left and right as per human eyes) to have the virtual
reality effect. At this step, the research team could click the
Play button and control the navigation by holding down the
Alt key whilst moving the mouse. The effect of the test run
exactly looked like the output using Google Cardboard

8

|

FIGURE 7

WANG ET AL.

Developing immersive system in windows (head-mounted display/360-degree display)

through Android Smartphone as shown in Figure 8. The APK
file was then exported to Android Smartphone by linking the
locations of Android SDK and Java SE SDK to Unity
software. Under the “Resolution and Presentation” function,
the “Default Orientation” was changed to “Landscape Left.”
After that, the Android Smartphone was plugged into laptop

USB port via USB cable. When the APK file of the immersive
system was successfully exported to windows, the APK file
was copied and pasted to the storages of the Android
Smartphone in order to install the APK file using Android
Smartphone to test run the effectiveness of the virtual reality
application.

|9

WANG ET AL.

FIGURE 8

Two stereoscopies (left and right) in test run

4.3 | Immersive system installation in android
smartphone

4.4 | Test run immersive systems using google
cardboard

The APK file was successfully transferred to the Android
Smartphone as shown in Figure 9, and the virtual reality
immersive application was ready to operate as shown in
Figure 10.

The virtual reality application was developed to improve
precision and efficiencies of taking off quantity surveying
works using BIM. Google Cardboard style headset and
Android Smartphone were required in the test run as shown in

FIGURE 9

APK file transfer from laptop to android smartphone

10

|

FIGURE 10

WANG ET AL.

Immersive system installed in android smartphone ready to operate

Figure 11, and the procedures included: (i) assemble and
install the google cardboard; (ii) open the immersive systems
of virtual reality apps through the Android Smartphone; and
(iii) put inside the Android Smartphone to the Google
Cardboard and stick the Velcro. Students tested run VR
products developed by them in lab as shown in Figure 12.

5 | SURVEY RESULTS
Ten latent variables listed in Table 2 including: (i) the
common uses of BIM, (ii) benefit of BIM, (iii) advantages of
BIM, (iv) reason implement BIM, (v) benefit of virtual
reality, (vi) virtual reality factor, (vii) augmented reality
factor, (viii) immersive system techniques, (ix) interactive
techniques, and (x) non-immersive systems techniques were
analyzed using Partial Least Squares Structural Equation
Modeling (PLS-SEM) in SmartPLS as shown in Figure 13.
Structural Equation Modeling was used to test the relationship
among variables where latent variables were created linking

to each other, and estimated by measured variables. There were
two types of coefficients in PLS algorithm modeling, namely:
coefficient of determination and path coefficients. Coefficient
of determination was used to represent the variance of the latent
variable being explained by other latent variables, while path
coefficients explained how strong the effect of one variable
was on another. When coefficients were above 0.75, it
represented a substantial relationship; 0.50 represented
moderate while below 0.25 indicating a weak relationship.
The coefficients of determination for all nine latent variables
were below 0.50 except “Advantages of BIM” had a moderate
effect on “Benefit of VR” with the value at 0.594, followed by
“Interactive techniques” at 0.418, “Augmented reality factor”
at 0.334, and “non-Immersive system techniques” at 0.314.
The remaining five latent variables were below 0.25 indicating
weak relationship. The weight of different path coefficients
was used to rank their relative statistical importance, where
“Benefit of Virtual Reality” ranked the highest, followed by
“Interactive Techniques,” and “Virtual Reality Factor,” and so
on (Figure 14).

| 11

WANG ET AL.

FIGURE 11

Test run immersive systems using google cardboard

The feedback after using the developed VR-BIM system
was summarized in Figure 15, including: (i) agreement on
better understanding architectural systems, (ii) agreement on
better understanding MEP systems, (iii) agreement on better
quantity surveying job, (iv) agreement on better construction
safety management, (v) agreement on help reducing variation
order cost, (vi) agreement on better idea pitching to clients
and investors, (vii) agreement on more attractiveness to
customers, and (viii) agreement on better learning outputs to

students and better understanding than using textbook. There
were 52.5% participants agreed and 19.0% strongly agreed
that the developed VR-BIM system could provide them better
understanding on architectural systems after the trial use, and
only 5.5% participants disagreed. There were 23.0%
participants gave neutral answers. After the trial use, there
were 39.0% participants agreed and 17.0% strongly agreed
that the developed VR-BIM system could provide them better
understanding on mechanical, electrical, and plumbing

12

|

FIGURE 12

WANG ET AL.

Students test run VR products developed by them in lab

TABLE 2 Coefficient of determination
Items

Coefficient of determination

Common use of BIM

0.080

Advantages of BIM

0.594

Reason implement BIM

0.080

Benefit of virtual reality

0.041

Virtual reality factor

0.006

Augmented reality factor

0.334

Immersive system techniques

0.314

Interactive techniques

0.418

Non-immersive systems techniques

0.159

(MEP) systems, followed by 27.5% neutral answers and
16.5% disagreement. There were 43.0% participants agreed
and 33.0% strongly agreed that the developed VR-BIM
system could assist better quantity surveying job after the trial
use, and only 4.5% participants disagreed. There were 19.5%
participants gave neutral answers.
After the trial use, there were 43.0% participants agreed
and 12.5% strongly agreed that the developed VR-BIM
system could assist better construction safety management,
followed by 37.5% neutral answers and only 7.0% negative
answers. There were 47.5% participants agreed and 13.0%
strongly agreed that the developed VR-BIM system could
reduce variation order cost after the trial use, and only 10.5%
participants disagreed. There were 29.0% participants gave

neutral answers. After the trial use, there were 46.5%
participants agreed and 20.0% strongly agreed that the
developed VR-BIM system could provide better idea pitching
to clients and investors, followed by 25.0% neutral answers
and 8.5% disagreement. There were 37.0% participants
agreed and 23.5% strongly agreed that the developed VRBIM system could help increase project attractiveness to
customers after the trial use, and only 8.5% participants
disagreed. There were 31.0% participants gave neutral
answers. After the trial use, there were 46.0% participants
agreed and 25.5% strongly agreed that the developed VRBIM system could provide students better understanding and
learning outcomes than text books, followed by 22.5% neutral
answers and 6.0% disagreement.

| 13

WANG ET AL.

FIGURE 13

PLS algorithm modal and bootstrapped model

FIGURE 14

Path coefficients ranking

6 | CONCLUSION AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
Virtual reality as one IT achievement to improve the
potentials of BIM system could transform a digital 3D model
into an immersive experience by enabling a person feeling
“walking” through a building not yet built, testing out a new
design, presenting customers the exact space of building.
Since the physical structure is not yet exactly built, client can
simply change any unwanted design, saving time and cost for
all parties thus reducing the mockup costs because client
could verify and estimated the value through the virtual
reality. To this end, a VR-embedded BIM immersive system
for quantity surveying practice and education was developed
in this study consisting of two main components: Immersive
System (Head-mounted display/360-degree display) and

Non-immersive systems (Desktop VR). VR could be simply
experienced using a smartphone with virtual reality apps and
virtual reality headsets. The virtual reality immersive
application help improving quantity surveying practitioners'
and QS students' understanding on the architectural design
using VR walkthrough to navigate the virtual 3D building
model, to improve the efficiencies of decision making and the
precision in quantity surveying work, the main job of which is
to take off the building design by minimizing the number of
assumption during taking off 2D drawings. One limitation is
that the 3D structural modeling was not included in this study
because of the scope constrain, but it is strongly recommended in future study to further develop detailed 3D
structural modeling to allow practitioners and students to
immerse to the internal part of the column, beam or slab and to
navigate the cross-sections of structures. Besides, it is also

14

|

FIGURE 15

WANG ET AL.

Feedback after using the developed VR-BIM system

recommended to use interactive concepts such as Fishtank
VR-move through world to enable augmented reality for
simulation training and education. Using the procedures
exhibited in this study, AEC professionals and students can
take their Revit models into Unity and create a VR experience

assisted by a bit of programming knowledge to customize
their VR models.
ORCID
Chen Wang

http://orcid.org/0000-0001-7892-3575

WANG ET AL.

REFERENCES
1. I. J. Akpan and M. Shanker, The confirmed realities and myths
about the benefits and costs of 3D visualization and virtual reality in
discrete event modeling and simulation: A descriptive metaanalysis of evidence from research and practice, Comput. Ind. Eng.
112 (2017), 197–211.
2. S. Bahn, Workplace hazard identification and management: The
case of an underground mining operation, Safety Sci. 57 (2013),
129–137.
3. A. H. Behzadan and V. R. Kamat, Enabling discovery-based
learning in construction using telepresent augmented reality,
Automat. Constr. 33 (2013), 3–10.
4. D. Bertol and D. Foell, Designing digital space: An architect's
guide to virtual reality, Wiley, New York, 1997.
5. F. Biocca and B. Delaney, Immersive virtual reality technology,
Commun. Age Virtual Reality 0805815503 (1995), 57–124.
6. S. Boeykens (2011). “Using 3D Design Software, BIM and Game
Engines for Architectural Historical Reconstruction”. CAAD
Futures, Liege, Belgium.
7. W. D. Cannon et al. Improving residency training in arthroscopic
knee surgery with use of a virtual-reality simulator: A randomized
blinded study”, J. Bone Joint Surg. Am. Vol. 96 (2014), 1798–1806.
8. S. Chen et al. A framework for an automated and integrated project
scheduling and management system, Automat. Constr. 35 (2013),
89–110.
9. J. K. Dickinson, Game-based trench safety education: Development
and lessons learned, J. Inform. Technol. Constr. 16 (2011),
119–134.
10. J. Du et al. Zero latency: Real-time synchronization of BIM data in
virtual reality for collaborative decision-making, Automat. Constr.
85 (2018), 51–64.
11. C. Eastman et al. BIM handbook: A guide to building information
modeling for owners, managers, designers, engineers, and
contractors, John Wiley & Sons Inc, London, 2008.
12. S. Gardezi et al. Challenges for implementation of building
information modeling (BIM) in Malaysian construction industry,
AMM Appl. Mechanics Mater. 567 (2014), 559–564.
13. C. Heeter, The ultimate display, multimedia: From Wagner to
virtual reality, Inform. Soc. 20 (2004), 61–64.
14. A. Heydarian et al. Immersive virtual environments versus physical
built environments: A benchmarking study for building design and
user-built environment explorations”, Automat. Constr. 54 (2015),
116–126.
15. H. G. Hoffman et al. The illusion of presence in immersive virtual
reality during an fMRI brain scan, Cyberpsychol. Behav. 6 (2003),
127–131.
16. M. Hooper and A. Ekholm, “A pilot study: Towards BIM
integration—an analysis of design information exchange &
coordination”. Proceedings of the CIB W78 2010: 27th International Conference, Cairo, Egypt, 16–18 November, 2010, 2010.
17. V. R. Kamat et al. Research in visualization techniques for field
construction, J. Constr. Eng. Manag.-ASCE 137 (2010), 853–862.
18. K. Kim, H. Kim, and H. Kim, Image-based construction hazard
avoidance system using augmented reality in wearable device,
Automat. Constr. 83 (2017), 390–403.
19. J. Lanier, Virtual reality: The promise of the future, Interact. Learn.
Int. 8 (1992), 275–279.
20. A. Latiffi, S. Mohd, and J. Brahim, Application of building
information modeling (BIM) in the Malaysian construction

| 15
industry: A story of the first government project, AMM Appl.
Mechanics Mater. 773–774 (2015), 943–948.
21. J. A. Macdonald (2012). “A framework for collaborative BIM
education across the AEC disciplines”. 37th Annual Conference of
Australasian University Building Educators Association (AUBEA),
Vol. 4, pp. 4–6.
22. A. C. A. Mol, C. A. F. Jorge, and P. M. Couto, Using a game engine
for VR simulations in evacuation planning”, Comput. Graphics
Appl. IEEE 28 (2008), 6–12.
23. J. C. Nunnally, Psychometric theory, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1978.
24. F. Remondino and S. Campana, 3D recording and modelling in
archaeology and cultural heritage: Theory and best practices,
Archaeo Press, Oxford, UK, 2014.
25. A. Z. Sampaio et al. 3D and VR models in Civil Engineering
education: Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance”, Automat. Constr. 19 (2010), 819–828.
26. A. Z. Sampaio and O. P. Martins, The application of virtual reality
technology in the construction of bridge: The cantilever and
incremental launching methods, Automat. Constr. 37 (2014), 58–67.
27. D. J. Stine, Design integration using Autodesk Revit, SDC
Publications, Mission, KS, 2010.
28. M. Trebbe, T. Hartmann, and A. Dorée, 4D CAD models to support
the coordination of construction activities between contractors,
Automat. Constr. 49 (2015), 83–91.
29. X. Wang et al. Integrating augmented reality with building
information modeling: Onsite construction process controlling for
liquefied natural gas industry, Automat. Constr. 40 (2014), 96–105.
30. K. Warwick, J. Gray, and D. Roberts, Virtual reality in engineering,
Institution of Electrical Engineers, London, 1993.
31. R. S. Weygant, BIM content development, standards, strategies,
and best practices, Construction Specification Institute, Alexandria, VA, 2011.
32. W. Yan, C. Culp, and R. Graf, Integrating BIM and gaming for realtime interactive architectural visualization”, Automat. Constr. 20
(2011), 446–458.
33. G. Younes et al. Virtual and augmented reality for rich interaction
with cultural heritage sites: A case study from the Roman Theater at
Byblos, DAACH 5 (2017) 1–9.
34. Z. Zahrizan et al. Exploring the adoption of building information
modelling (Bim) in the Malaysian construction industry: A
qualitative approach, Int. J. Res. Eng. Technol. 52 (2013), 145–156.
35. Y. Zhou, H. Luo, and Y. Yang, Implementation of augmented
reality for segment displacement inspection during tunneling
construction, Automat. Constr. 82 (2017), 112–121.
36. W. Zhou, J. Whyte, and R. Sacks, Construction safety and digital
design: A review”, Automat. Constr. 22 (2012), 102–111.

C. WANG MIEEE, MRICS, is a distinguished professor in the College of
Civil Engineering, Huaqiao University, Xiamen, China, and the Head of
Department of Construction Management. He was an associate professor of
Construction Innovation, Surveying,
and Engineering Management in the
Faculty of Built Environment, University of Malaya, and a
senior engineer of China State Construction Engineering

16

|

Corporation (CSCEC), which is the main contractor of the
2008 Olympics Beijing National Aquatics Center known
as “Water Cube” and the Russian Federal Building in
Moscow. His research interests include vertical greenery
system (VGS), mathematics modeling for civil engineering, swarm intelligence, ant colony optimization (ACO),
Fuzzy-QFD, tensile membrane steel structure, repertory
grid, sustainability in construction management, international BOT projects, energy conservation, and building
integrated solar application, supported by his vast publications. He is an IEEE member (U.S.), RICS member
(U.K.), and also a perpetual member of The Chinese
Research Institute of Construction Management (CRIOCM), Hong Kong (International).
H. LI is a chair professor in the
Department of Building and Real
Estate, The Hong Kong Polytechnic
University, Hong Kong. He started his
academic career from Tongji University since 1987. Heng then researched
and lectured at the University of
Sydney, James Cook University and
Monash University before joining Hong Kong Polytechnic University. During this period, Heng have also worked

WANG ET AL.

with engineering design and construction firms and
provided consultancy services to both private and
government organizations in Australia, Hong Kong and
China. Heng has conducted many funded research
projects related to the innovative application and transfer
of construction information technologies, and he has
published 2 books, more than 300 journal papers in major
journals of his field, and numerous conferences papers in
proceedings.
S. Y. KHO is a research fellow at
Faculty of Built Environment, University of Malaya. His research interests include building information
modelling, VR/AR applications in
architectural education, and 3D printing techniques.

How to cite this article: Wang C, Li H, Kho SY.
VR-embedded BIM immersive system for QS
engineering education. Comput Appl Eng Educ.
2018;1–16. https://doi.org/10.1002/cae.21915

